Despite Serbia going down 2-1 against Switzerland in their previous match, their fate is still in their hands going into their match against Brazil on Wednesday evening. Feature Match: SERBIA V BRAZILDespite Serbia going down 2-1 against Switzerland in their previous match, their fate is still in their hands going into their match against Brazil on Wednesday evening. Brazil need to avoid defeat to progress to the Round of 16. Serbia Key Players: Aleksandar Mitrović (Forward)The forward was a key player in the Serbian squad against Switzerland, opening the scoring in the fifth minute. He was brilliant in the air winning an impressive eight aerial battles. His physical strength will be a major for Thiago Silva at centre-back for Brazil. The 23-year-old will be hoping to use his brilliant passing and finishing against a poor performing Brazil team. Dušan Tadić (Midfielder)The Southampton midfielder has had an impressive World Cup thus far. His assist for Mitrović showed why he is a force to be reckoned with from midfield. His key passes and powerful shots will need to be contained by Brazil’s defensive midfielders. Tadić will also have to keep his discipline in check against a soft Brazil team who go to ground quite easily. Brazil Key Players: Philippe Coutinho (Midfielder)The "Magician" has scored in both of Brazil’s matches so far. With Neymar being underwhelming this World Cup so far, many Brazilian hopes will be pinned on the Barcelona man. His late heroics and ability to turn a game on its head in one piece of play will keep the Serbian defence on their toes. Brazil need a perfect performance from Coutinho. Casemiro (Midfielder)The Real Madrid defensive midfielder held Costa Rica’s attack at bay throughout the 90 minutes. Two dribbles, four tackles and four areal battles won; the midfielder will fancy himself against the likes of Dusan Tadic and – at times – Mitrović of Serbia. His attacking play may also give Serbia hope of three points against the Brazilians. Ahmed Kajee’s prediction: Serbia 1-1 Brazil SWITZERLAND V COSTA RICA MATCH PREVIEW Switzerland take on a Costa Rican team that is fighting for nothing but pride as the South American country go into the match with not a point to their name. Despite off-field political issues, Switzerland go into the match as favourites with a full squad to choose from. Xherdan Shaqiri and Granit Xhaka faced no disciplinary action after their politically motivated celebrations in their 2-1 win over Serbia. Keylor Navas will be hoping to bring his Real Madrid experience to the fore and keep a clean sheet for his country. Kajee’s prediction: Switzerland 2-0 Costa Rica MEXICO V SWEDEN MATCH PREVIEW Mexico is the favourite to qualify for the Round of 16 following their victories over South Korea and Germany respectively. However, a win for Sweden by more than two goals could see their spot in jeopardy, if Germany beat a point-less South Korea. Mexico will do everything in their power to avoid defeat and subsequently qualify. It will, however, be easier said than done considering that they are going up against a team that pushed Germany to what can be best described as the last kick of the game. Kajee's prediction: Mexico 1-1 Sweden SOUTH KOREA V GERMANY MATCH PREVIEW: The South Koreans are going into the match with just pride to play for. Germany need a brilliant, convincing performance that will give them all three points. With the last-minute heroics against Sweden, Toni Kroos continuously proves why he is a constant starter for European giants Real Madrid. Son Heung-Min’s last-minute consolation goal for South Korea against Mexico will be a reminder to Germany to not lose concentration at the back. Kajee's prediction: South Korea 0-2 Germany Kick-off Times (CAT): Mexico v Sweden: 16h00 South Korea v Germany: 16h00 Switzerland v Costa Rica: 20h00 Serbia v Brazil: 20h00