Bernstein Liebhard LLP said the suit would deal with 'misleading statements' made by Sibanye, which has had 21 fatalities on its operations so far in 2018. JOHANNESBURG - A US law firm has filed a class action lawsuit against South African miner Sibanye-Stillwater on behalf of shareholders to recover losses suffered after a spate of deaths at its mines triggered a sharp fall in its share price. Bernstein Liebhard LLP said in a statement the suit would deal with "misleading statements" made by the precious metals producer, which has had 21 fatalities on its operations so far in 2018, almost half of the total in South Africa's mining industry. Bernstein Liebhard LLP has called on anyone with a stake in the company to contribute to the case. It says any person or organisation whose bought Sibanye-Stillwater shares from April last year can join its class action lawsuit against the mining company. The action's purpose is to recover investment losses suffered as a result of the 21 fatalities at Sibanye's operations this year. Sibanye has confirmed that it received the lawsuit papers but plans to oppose the action, saying the allegations have no foundation. A worker died on Tuesday during a cleaning shift at the mine's Driefontein operation. This brings to six the number of workers who have lost their lives at the company in a month and 21 since the beginning of the year. Sibanye-Stillwater says that it is waiting for details from the primary investigation into the latest fatality. Details have still not been released into the investigation regarding five workers who died earlier this month.   On Wednesday, Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Mineral Resources said the continued deaths of mine workers at Sibanye-Stillwater should be viewed as a national crisis. Chairperson of the Committee on Mineral Resources Sahlulele Luzipo said the company should be placed under curatorship and, if need be, lose its operating licence. Luzipo said the rate at which workers are dying at Sibanye-Stillwater mines has reached disastrous proportions. “This is a national disaster. It’s a crisis and it’s a crisis by one company, mostly.” Additional reporting by Sifiso Zulu.