In Group H, Senegal and Japan will both be looking for victories to cement their progression to the knock out stages. JOHANNESBURG -The final matches of the group stage takes place on Thursday evening. With England and Belgium having already qualified, both teams are expected to rest players. Meanwhile, in Group H, Senegal and Japan will both be looking for victories to cement their progression to the knock out stages. Feature match: SENEGAL V COLOMBIA Senegal key players: M’Baye Niang (Forward) The forward was a formidable force up front, in Senegal’s 2-2 draw with Japan over the weekend. Along with assisting the second goal to put Senegal ahead 18 minutes from time, the forward used his aerial ability to win three battles; as well as earning four corners in the process. A few tackles and pressing from the front will give Senegal a chance of winning – or at least drawing – considering that is all they need to progress. Moussa Wague (Defender) The left-back contained the likes of Takashi Inui down the Japanese’s left wing, forcing the Japanese to attack down the centre and the right wings. His forward play will also be instrumental against Colombia as he gets into the opposition box exceptionally well. His defensive work will need to be strong to keep Colombia from taking three points and Senegal’s qualification spot in the process. Colombia key players: James Rodriguez (Midfielder) A brilliant performance in their 3-0 win over Poland gave the Colombians hope of progressing to the Round of 16. Rodriguez assisted two goals – the opener for Yerry Mina and the third for Juan Cuadrado. A brilliant 87% pass success rate from the left side of midfield against Poland makes the former-Madrid man a massive threat against a Senegalese defence that conceded two avoidable goals against Japan. Juan Cuadrado (Midfielder) Scoring the third goal 15 minutes from time, against Poland, rounded off a brilliant performance from the Juventus midfielder. Like teammate James Rodrigues, Cuadrado’s passing success rate exceeded the 85% mark – with an impressive 96%. Cuadrado can carry out many dribbles to take his team forward, which will keep the Senegal defence very busy. Ahmed Kajee’s prediction: Senegal 1-2 Colombia Match preview:JAPAN V POLAND Poland are playing for pride against a Japan team that needs nothing less than a win to guarantee progression to the round of 16. If Japan lose, and Colombia beat Senegal, Colombia will progress. The second spot (between Senegal and Japan) will then be decided on goal difference. Following a resilient performance against Senegal over the weekend, Japan will be confident going into their final group match having scored four goals so far - compared to Poland’s one. Kajee's prediction: Japan 2-0 Poland Match Preview: ENGLAND V BELGIUM Many expected this match to be a feature match when the tournament started, but the manner that the group has shaped, this match will only decide who finished at the top of the group. With both teams having already progressed to the knockout stages, both coaches have a chance to, either, rest players or try different shapes and combinations throughout the game. We can expect an exciting game nonetheless. Kajee's prediction: England 1-1 Belgium Match preview: PANAMA V TUNISIA Winless in their opening matches, both teams will be hoping to return home with some dignity. Panama head into the game having already reached a milestone - they scored their first ever World Cup goal against England. They lost the game 6-1. Tunisia were unfortunate in their 2-1 loss against England and perhaps go into the game as favourites. Kajee’s prediction: Panama 0-1 Tunisia Kick-off Times (CAT):Senegal v Colombia: 16h00Japan v Poland: 16hoo England v Belgium: 20h00Panama v Tunisia: 20h00