Cyril Ramaphosa says the 2019 elections will be hotly contested and the party needs to address the challenges of ordinary South Africans. JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa says the African National Congress (ANC) can no longer count on South Africans to vote for the party merely based on the role it played in liberating the country. Ramaphosa says the 2019 elections will be hotly contested and the party needs to address the challenges of ordinary South Africans. He says the party's manifesto, on which they would base their electioneering campaign on, should be forward-looking. “The manifesto that we’re meeting to discuss today must, therefore, be firmly focused on the future. Knowing very well that the very firm and good foundation was built and set out in the past, but we cannot dwell on that past, we must build a manifesto that will take us to the future and focus on that future.” JEFF RADEBE ANC head of policy Jeff Radebe says the party's election manifesto must not be centred around card-carrying members of the party only. He says they want it to be inclusive of the needs of all South Africans. When Ramaphosa delivered the keynote address at the manifesto consultative workshop in Irene, he was clear that the final document must encompass a wide range of views. “The manifesto will not simply be a survey of South African opinion, it will describe the programme of action.” The ANC gathered its leaders, deployees in government, activists and academics to start the first round of consultation towards drafting its manifesto for the 2019 elections. Speaking to the media as the commissions were ongoing, Radebe said the manifesto is not a document for card-carrying members, it has to cater to all sectors of society. “As the ANC, we should not develop a manifesto based solely on card-carrying members of the ANC.” The party says it will have consultations in other provinces and hopes to finalise the manifesto before the end of the year. TONY YENGENI At the same time, the ANC has defended its decision to appoint convicted fraudster Tony Yengeni to chair its working group on crime and corruption. The Member of Parliament was sent to jail in 2003 for fraud after he failed to disclose a 47% discount he received for a vehicle while he was ANC chief whip. Radebe says the crime and corruption working group will deal with ways the party can reduce the increase in crimes. “Yes, it is true that he was convicted, he served his sentence and [paid] his dues. His last conference [he was] elected into the ANC national executive committee and he’s now the chair of peace and stability in the ANC. So, that was a democratic process.”     