Paramedics at the stadium treated the former player for low blood pressure, with the 57-year-old saying that he was told to go home before the second half. JOHANNESBURG - Argentina legend and 1986 World Cup winner, Diego Maradona has taken to social media to say that he is “fine” after appearing to collapse during Tuesday’s World Cup match between Argentina and Nigeria. The former Argentina captain, could be see being helped from his seat at the St Petersburg Stadium, before collapsing inside the stadium. Paramedics at the stadium treated him for low blood pressure, with the 57-year-old saying that he was told to go home before the second half. In his social media post after the match, Maradona said his “neck hurt a lot”, but “I want to tell everyone that I’m fine”. Castellano | Italiano | Inglés Quiero contarles que estoy bien, que no estoy ni estuve internado. En el entretiempo del partido con Nigeria me dolía mucho la nuca y sufrí una descompensación. Me revisó un médico y me recomendó que me fuera a casa antes del segundo tiempo, pero yo quise quedarme porque nos estábamos jugando todo. ¿Cómo me iba a ir? Les mando un beso a todos, perdón por el susto y gracias por el aguante, hay Diego para rato! Voglio solo dirvi che sto bene, che non sono e non sono stato ricoverato. Durante l'intervallo della partita con la Nigeria ho avuto un forte dolore alla nuca e un mancamento. Un medico mi ha visitato e mi ha consigliato di tornare a casa prima del secondo tempo, ma ho deciso di rimanere perché ci stavamo giocando il tutto per tutto. Come sarei potuto andarmene? Un bacio a tutti e grazie per il supporto... Diego ci sarà ancora per un bel po'! I want to tell everyone that I am fine, that I am not, neither was I interned. In the halftime of the game against Nigeria, my neck hurt a lot and I suffered a decompensation. I was checked by a doctor and he recommended me to go home before the second half, but I wanted to stay because we were risking it all. How could I leave? I send a kiss to everyone, thanks for the support! A post shared by  Diego Maradona Oficial (@maradona) on Jun 26, 2018 at 7:20pm PDT  Videos emerged of the World Cup winner struggling to get up from his seat at full time, but some reports suggest that he later boarded a flight back to Moscow.   Maradona had earlier been seen celebrating Marcos Rojo’s winner by swearing and make rude hand gestures to Nigerian supporters in the stands. The former Golden Ball winner appeared in four World Cups and made 91 appearances for his country before going on to manage the national team.