Mexico defended exceptionally well against Germany, however, they should not go into the game against South Korea over-confident. Feature Match: GERMANY V SWEDEN Germany Key Players: Julian Draxler (Forward)The Paris Saint-Germain forward was the standout performer in Germany’s 1-0 shock loss to Mexico in the first round. Draxler was brilliant down the left, creating a number of chances for the Germans. He had five shots at goal to show for his efforts, but unfortunately, none passed the Mexico goalkeeper. The 23-year old will have to be on top form to get passed a strong Swedish defence. Jérôme Boateng (Defender)Jérôme Boateng was probably the best defender on the field against Mexico, making the most tackles between both sets of defenders. The Bayern Munich defender has impressed Germans and with a similar performance against Sweden, Germany may have a better chance at progressing. Sweden Key Players: Andreas Granqvist (Defender)Jan Olof Andersson’s men are coming off a 1-0 win over South Korea. Defender, Andreas Granqvist had a brilliant performance, making a number of key tackles, interceptions and scoring the decisive goal to hand his team all three points. A similar performance will not just help Sweden progress with six points, but also relegate Germany to a first-round exit. Ola Toivonen (Forward)The forward will prove to be an aerial threat for Jérôme Boateng and co. Toivonen won an impressive six aerial battles against South Korea. His movement and presence around the 25-yard area will keep the German defence on their toes. Ahmed’s Prediction: Germany 1 – 0 Sweden BELGIUM V TUNISIA MATCH PREVIEW: Belgium was simply brilliant against Panama. Romelu Lukaku’s decisive finishing with a brilliant midfield made up of Eden Hazard and Dries Mertens, behind him will allow fans to be more than confident heading into the tie. Tunisia will be left heartbroken after their last-minute loss to England. However, they’ll have to bounce back against a strong Belgian team. Ahmed’s prediction: Belgium 3 – 0 Tunisia SOUTH KOREA V MEXICO MATCH PREVIEW: Ki Sung-yueng had a decent performance against Sweden but found himself on the losing side. Mexico defended exceptionally well against Germany, however, they should not go into the game over-confident. If Mexico affords Tottenham Hotspur forward Son Heung-Min half a chance, they may live to regret it. Ahmed’s prediction: South Korea 1 – 1 Mexico Kick-off times (CAT): Belgium v Tunisia: 14h00 South Korea v Mexico: 17h00 Germany v Sweden: 20h00