In a scathing statement, Kumar says that CSA had failed to communicate with franchise owners properly and it prompted them to pay CSA officials a visit earlier in the year. JOHANNESBURG - Sushnil Kumar on Wednesday became the latest Global League T20 franchise owner to blast Cricket South Africa (CSA) for a lack of communication and attempting to exclude them in the newly announced T20 league that is set to begin in December 2018. In a scathing statement, Kumar says that CSA had failed to communicate with franchise owners properly and it prompted them to pay CSA officials a visit earlier in the year. After the collapse of the inaugural GLT20 in October 2017, most of the franchise owners were reimbursed their $250,000 deposit. Though that was the case, a handful of franchise owners have hit out at CSA in the last few days, accusing the board of trying to exclude them in the new deal with sports broadcasting giants SuperSport which was announced last month. In a statement released on Wednesday, Kumar details his attempts to find clarity from CSA. “It has been a roller coaster ride with Cricket South Africa ever since. The lack of a proper response from CSA prompted the undersigned to make two visits to meet with CSA officials. The first visit was on 24 February during the T20I between South Africa and India at Newlands. The sense of feeling was that the Board members were being fed false information with regards to the owners’ intentions going forward and the board was informed that all owners wanted out, thus, the model of private ownership was off the table. "This was not true, and the undersigned reiterated the owners were committed to the Global League T20 and a week later it was announced that Cricket South Africa will open discussions with all team owners to renegotiate revised financial and operational terms.” Kumar says he is disgruntled by the mishandling of the GLT20 by CSA and will be following up the matter with the South African Sports Ministry. “We are absolutely disgruntled at the way CSA had handled (or mishandled) its affairs with regard to the T20 Global League. The undersigned also led a delegation with their Director of Cricket Robin Singh on the invitation from the Consul General of South Africa in Hong Kong and Macau. "During this meeting, we expressed our disappointment to the honourable consul general Mr Ntshinga and vice consul Mr Naidoo. We requested the Consulate to take up the issue with the Ministry of Sport in South Africa. Vested interests and personality clashes within the management of CSA is only affecting the reputation of the board. We will be actively following up through the Ministry of Sport and looking forward to an early resolve to this matter.”