Pieter-Steph Du Toit’s selection on the side of the scrum sees young Jean-Luc du Preez drop to the substitutes bench in one of three changes to the matchday squad that will face England for the second Test. BLOEMFONTEIN - Pieter-Steph du Toit will again start a Test match on the blindside flank in South Africa’s second Test against England at the Free State Stadium in Bloemfontein on Saturday. Du Toit’s selection on the side of the scrum sees young Jean-Luc du Preez drop to the substitutes bench, in one of three changes to the matchday squad, with Frans Malherbe replacing Wilco Louw at tighthead prop and Jesse Kriel coming onto the bench in place of Elton Jantjies. The decision to include Du Toit on the blindside flank has always been publicly criticised and has often been the downfall of Springbok coach Rassie Erasmus’ predecessors in recent times. Despite the criticism of the selection, the Bok coach believes Du Toit’s ability to cover both lock and flank makes him a great asset to the Springbok set-up and likened his abilities to those of former Springbok utility forward Andre Venter. Venter - who played for the Cheetahs, Sharks and the Springboks between 1996 and 2001 - was a hard and versatile forward whose initial position was blindside flank but was often used in the second row by many a coach during his career. Erasmus spoke glowingly about Du Toit’s versatility during the team announcement at the team hotel in Bloemfontein on Thursday. "We are very fortunate to have a player like Pieter-Steph because he can fill both roles of lock and flank. I think he is in the mould of Andre Venter who was very good for the Springboks in both those positions during his career." Du Toit also captained South Africa in the once-off Test match against Wales in Washington two weeks ago, an experience that Erasmus thinks will aid the side in the second Test in Bloemfontein. "Pieter-Steph was always close to starting in this series and he also brings a level of experience to this young side. He has captained South Africa before and that can really help the leadership in this Test match." Coincidentally Du Toit last played at blindside flank at Test match level against Saturday’s opponents in 2016 at Twickenham, where the English beat the Springboks 37-21. Saturday will again prove to be a test of whether Erasmus and his predecessors' faith in Du Toit at blindside flank will bear fruit or not. Kick-off at the Free State Stadium is at 17.05. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)