Thiago Silva’s defensive abilities, paired with his leadership, will play an important part in keeping Costa Rica at bay. Feature Match: BRAZIL V COSTA RICA Brazil’s Key Players: Philippe Coutinho (Midfielder)Following a brilliant goal against Switzerland, which ended in a draw, the creative midfielder was one of the standout performers for the Brazilians. If Brazil found a winner, Coutinho would have been involved. Neymar was restricted throughout the game and may even be accused of going down too easily. Coutinho will be a key figure in Brazil breaking down Costa Rica’s defence. Thiago Silva (Defender)Thiago Silva’s defensive abilities, paired with his leadership, will play an important part in keeping Costa Rica at bay. The PSG captain holds the back line together. Despite conceding against a surprisingly impressive Switzerland, he’ll be hoping for a clean sheet. His 89% pass accuracy and pressing forward runs will play a big part in Friday’s match. Costa Rica’s Key Players: Bryan Ruiz (Forward)The 32-year old is known for his accurate passes which can split the defensive line if the players ahead of him time their runs well enough. His crosses from out wide will also give the Thiago Silva and his men a hard time at the back. Keylor Navas (Goalkeeper)The Real Madrid star will be up against a number of La Liga teammates and counterparts. Neymar, Coutinho and Marcelo – to name a few – are all players Navas will be going up against. Despite conceding to Serbia, Navas has all the skills to keep a clean sheet against Brazil. Ahmed’s Prediction: Brazil 2 – 0 Costa Rica NIGERIA V ICELAND MATCH PREVIEW: For many African fans, allegiances will be towards Nigeria. However, Iceland may go into the game as favourites. Nigeria went down to Croatia in their previous outing with a lacklustre performance. Iceland, meanwhile, held Argentina to a draw and will feel confident of taking three points. Ahmed’s prediction: Nigeria 0 – 2 Iceland SERBIA V SWITZERLAND MATCH PREVIEW: Both teams go into the match off impressive performances despite Serbia having three points and Switzerland just one. Xherdan Shaqiri and Granit Xhaka were brilliant against Brazil and have a strong chance at scoring more than once against the Serbs. Serbia’s Aleksandar Kolarov will hope to find the back of the net again to help his team progress. Ahmed’s Prediction: Serbia 1 – 1 Switzerland