The second half was a more subdued encounter, with both sides making numerous errors on the attack. JOHANNESBURG - The Springboks drew first blood in the three-Test match series when they came from behind to beat England 42-39 at Emirates Airline Park on Saturday evening. England romped to an early 24-3 lead against the Springboks, scoring three brilliant tries. Fullback Elliot Daly first converted a monster penalty from 64m out before winger Mike Brown showed great strength to avoid not one but two would be Springbok defenders to score in the left-hand corner. England utilised their early possession, as well, as they found yet another hole in the Boks’ early porous defence, this time Daly the try scorer. Minutes later Captain Owen Farrell went over the English third of the game. England could not sustain that early dominance, as the Boks began to settle and control the possession. Faf de Klerk dived over from close range for the Boks’ first try of the game before Sbu Nkosi showed a neat piece of skill to score his first try in National colours. Nkosi popped up again on the left-wing side when he received a beautiful inside pass from Lukhanyo Am for his brace. Willie le Roux then ensure the Boks went into the halftime break in front for the first time in the match with South Africa's fourth of the half. Farrell slotted a penalty to end a pulsating first 29-27 in favour of the home side. The second half was a more subdued encounter, with both sides making numerous errors on the attack, Handre Pollard added a penalty to stretch South Africa's lead to 32-27. Another debutant Aphiwe Dyantyi got onto the score sheet before England score two more tries, one through lock Maro Itoje and winger Jonny May, to ensure a nervy last 5 mins for the Springboks who were able to hang on to draw first blood in the three-Test match series. The two sides now move to Bloemfontein for the second Test. At the same time, Siyamthanda Kolisi made history as the first black African to captain a Springbok team. This was the moment Kolisi walked out of the tunnel at Ellis Park Stadium. “What a moment for Siyamthanda Kolisi, the first black African player to captain the Springboks. What a welcome… wins his 29th Test cap on Saturday afternoon.” Additional information by Ahmed Kajee.