JOHANNESBURG - The 2018 World Cup is a historic one; it is the first World Cup to have the video assistant referee (VAR) used in games. The main purpose of VAR is to ensure that the correct decision is made during matches. There have been two incidents in the World Cup so far, that keeps me sceptical about the presence of VAR in football. During the match between France and Australia, France were awarded a penalty after referee Andrés Cunha overturned his decision to reject France’s calls to be awarded a penalty. Before discussing the penalty incident that VAR wanted reviewing, my worry with VAR lies with the following piece of play before VAR calls for play to be halted. Following France’s appeal for a penalty, goalkeeper Mat Ryan collected the ball and played it out to his defender. Had Australia went on to counter-attack and score, the excitement would have been crushed as the referee would have to go back to the reviewable penalty decision – and would have to reverse Australia’s goal. The International Football Association Board states the rules regarding counter-attacking goals from a potential foul. The VAR and referee should first determine whether or not a clear penalty was missed: If the referee did not make a clear error by not awarding a penalty, the goal stands (the offside is not penalised as the referee has effectively played advantage) If the referee made a clear error in not awarding a penalty kick, the offside situation must then be reviewed: If there was offside it must be penalised (advantage cannot be played, and the goal allowed as the ‘missed’ penalty kick cannot be ignored) If there was no offside, the penalty is awarded (and the goal cancelled) The referee must take the appropriate disciplinary action if the penalty is awarded.  Some analysts argued that France did not deserve a penalty as the defender contacted the ball first. It seems that there is still disagreement with the referee regardless of whether VAR is present or not. In football, a moment like this is a grey area which is not clearly defined. We saw a similar incident in the game between Spain and Portugal. Despite Diego Costa scoring a brilliant opener, VAR’s consultation deemed his goal to be fair despite his elbow contacting Pepe’s face. Some may argue that Costa fouled Pepe. Could we imagine the scenes of a last-minute World Cup winner being overturned as VAR reviews the decision? In so many ways, VAR removes the human-error and element of excitement that brings. The presence of VAR has, in many ways, also increased the disrespect players’ show towards referees’ decisions. During the game between Brazil and Switzerland, we saw Neymar urging the referee to reconsider his decision to award Switzerland a goal despite replays suggesting that Steven Zuber pushed the Brazilian defender Miranda in the back before powering a header past Alisson. Neymar subsequently called on referees to "do their job" after the game. "When you see the moment on [the] replay, people celebrating the goal... I was seeing it again but it's not for me to talk about it, there are four professionals working for that. They have to do their job.” he said.   It seems that VAR allows players to further undermine the referee’s officiating skills. This is the complete opposite in rugby where players give the referee all the time and – most importantly – space to communicate with fellow officials to arrive at the correct decisions. Provided players respect the referee and his decisions, and rules clearly dictating what happens when a ruling is overturned may change my scepticism of VAR’s presence in football. Ahmed Kajee is an intern at Eyewitness News.