The 43-year-old actress and activist has spoken out about the need to help the millions of refugees around the world by embracing the idea of an 'open society'. LONDON - Angelia Jolie has urged people to "unite" in order to "overcome the global refugee crisis". The 43-year-old actress and activist serves as a Special Envoy to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and has spoken out about the need to help the millions of refugees around the world by embracing the idea of an "open society". She said: "We live in divisive times. But history also shows our ability to unite, overcome a global crisis, and renew our sense of purpose and community with other nations. That is the greatest strength of an open society. We should not leave the debate to those who would exploit public anxiety for political advantage. We are being tested today and our response will be the measure of our humanity." The Maleficent 2 star has been vocal about her fight for refugees since she became a Special Envoy in 2012 after first starting as an ambassador in 2001, and insists that all people "deserve protection". She added: "A refugee is a man, woman or child at their most vulnerable: forced from their home, living without the protection of their state, and in many cases without the bare means of survival. It is the human condition that tests our belief that all human beings have equal rights and deserve protection." Jolie - who has Maddox, 16, Pax, 14, Zahara, 13, Shiloh, 12, and nine-year-old twins Knox and Vivienne with her estranged husband Brad Pitt - says more needs to be done to create a "sustainable solution" that will solve the refugee crisis for good. In an essay penned for The Economist, she wrote: "It is not surprising that there is deep public concern: not because people are heartless, but because this is not a sustainable situation. But the answer is not countries adopting harsh unilateral measures that target refugees and run counter to our values and our responsibilities. That will only inflame the problem."