The DA says it’s clear from the interview with CapeTalk and Talk Radio 702’s Eusebius McKaiser in April, that Patricia De Lille’s relationship with the party had broken down. CAPE TOWN - A Patricia de Lille radio interview is under scrutiny in the Western Cape High Court, where she is challenging the Democratic Alliance (DA)’s decision to rescind her membership. The party says it’s clear from the interview with CapeTalk and Talk Radio 702’s Eusebius McKaiser in April that De Lille’s relationship with the party had broken down. The DA’s legal team says it’s clear that she only planned to remain in the party for as long as it would take to restore her name. The mayor claims she only meant she would give up the mayoralty if she cleared her name, and not resign from the party. But the DA’s Sean Rosenberg says that should carry insignificant weight before the court. He says De Lille’s statement was made in the context of an already acrimonious relationship between herself and the DA. “Now that the applicant [De Lille] appreciates the consequences of what she said in the context of her battle; in these court papers she now says, ‘I didn’t intend to resign from the DA, I only intended to resign from my position as the mayor’.” As a seasoned politician, the DA says she made a public declaration that can leave no doubt that she planned to resign from the party. Rosenberg says De Lille’s statements are clear that she only planned to stay for a specific period of time. [From the archives] LISTEN: Patricia De Lille's interview with Eusebius McKaiser  DA’S CESSATION CLAUSE The DA has told the Western Cape High Court it doesn’t believe the 24-hour period given to De Lille to respond to the termination of her membership was unreasonable. Rosenberg says the party had to act with urgency because of the damage that was being done to its image. He says the relationship between De Lille and the DA was already acrimonious when she indicated in a radio interview that she planned to walk away from the party. Rosenberg contends the DA’s cessation clause is neither irrational nor unfair. He argues the rules of the party’s Federal Legal Commission are also not inconsistent with the party’s constitution. Rosenberg has told the court, the relationship between De Lille and the DA has irretrievably broken down. “The party has decided that they are never… that alone results in termination. That is the decision of the party to attach those consequences, and that’s the issue that has to be determined. It’s not relevant whether this is the mayor or a councillor ... ". Asked by Judge Mantame why the party has not allowed the disciplinary process to take its course, Rosenberg said it was De Lille who had stalled proceedings. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)