Minister Pravin Gordhan convened a meeting with Eskom’s board and management as well as the NUM, Numsa and Solidarity. JOHANNESBURG - Eskom's 0% wage offer is off the table after an intervention by the Department of Public Enterprises. Minister Pravin Gordhan convened a meeting on Friday with Eskom’s board and management as well as the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and Solidarity. All parties agreed to negotiate a new wage deal and restore production to prevent further blackouts. The department's Richard Mantu said: “The minister’s concern was that the destruction of electricity [infrastructure and interruptions in power] supply which is not going to benefit any party nor the country and the economy. So now, the parties agreed on a process to resume negotiations with immediate effect.” South Africans have been experiencing controlled outages since Thursday with the utility saying this was due to the sabotage of electricity infrastructure to by striking employees. Workers downed tools over Eskom’s decision to freeze wage increases citing financial difficulties. On Friday, Eskom announced it has suspended load shedding. At least 18 people have been arrested in connection with acts of violence and intimidation at the utility's power stations. Meanwhile, labour unions representing workers at Eskom have both denied taking part in any acts of violence or intimidations at the utility's power stations over the past two days. Numsa's Phakamile Hlubi-Majola says Eskom has a track record of resorting to dirty and underhanded tactics against those who oppose them. “For over 10 years, Eskom ahs been steeped in allegations of corruption, mismanagement and looting by some senior executives. To date, not one rand has been recovered by the SOE for this wasteful expenditure. In spite of these shenanigans, our members continue to work very hard everyday in order to keep the lights on.” The NUM’s Livhuwani Mammburu said their members are only taking part in peaceful “lunchtime pickets”. “Our members are not responsible for any intimidation.”