Defender Gen Shoji made several important challenges against Colombia, including four aerial wins and two challenges which resulted in a turnover of possession. Feature Match: JAPAN V SENEGAL Japan’s key players: Yuya Osako (Forward) Yuya Osako proved to be a massive thorn in Colombia’s side when the teams met in the first round. For his efforts, the FC Cologne attacker grabbed himself a goal courtesy of a Keisuke Honda assist. Osako won many aerial duels and made important strides in the attacking third. Senegal will have to contain Osako to keep the Japanese attack at bay. Gen Shoji (Defender) Defender Gen Shoji made several important challenges against Colombia, including four aerial wins and two challenges which resulted in a turnover of possession. His aerial ability and accurate passing will give Japan all the confidence they need heading into the game against Senegal. Senegal’s Key Players: Sadio Mane (Forward) The Liverpool star was regularly involved in Senegal’s victory over Poland. His runs down the left kept the right-sided Polish players constantly occupied. If afforded the time and space on the ball, Mane can be devastating. His instinctive finishes will be a major threat to Japan. Khadim N'Diaye (Goalkeeper) Despite conceding against Poland, N’Diaye made many saves when he was called upon. He made three important saves in the game which kept the Lions of Teranga in the tie. N’Diaye will be hoping for a clean sheet against a strong attack made up of Shinji Kagawa, Yuya Osako and Keisuke Honda. Ahmed’s Prediction: Japan 1 – 1 Senegal ENGLAND V PANAMA: Match Preview Following their last-grasp winner against Tunisia, England will be hoping for an improved attacking performance, which will have to involve clinical finishing from the forward players. With England’s track record of slipping up at major tournaments, Panama may be the toughest (mental) challenge the Three Lions must overcome. Panama is coming off a 3-0 loss to Belgium, so it wouldn’t be surprising if their confidence wasn’t too high. Ahmed’s Prediction: England 2 – 1 Panama POLAND V COLOMBIA: Match Preview Both teams are coming off 2-1 losses and need a win to have a chance of progressing to the next round. West Bromwich Albion midfielder, and goal scorer, Grzegorz Krychowiak will be hoping to find the back off the net again for Poland whilst Robert Loweandowski needs a livelier performance to help his Polish teammates over the line. Colombia will be without Carlos Sánchez after he received a red card against Japan. Ahmed’s Prediction: Poland 1 – 0 Colombia Kick-off times(CAT): England v Panama: 14h00 Japan v Senegal: 17h00 Poland v Colombia: 20h00