Proteas speedster Dale Steyn will play for English county side Hampshire in a bid to prove his fitness for selection for the two match Test tour of Sri Lanka in July. JOHANNESBURG - Proteas speedster Dale Steyn will play for English county side Hampshire in a bid to prove his fitness for selection for the two-match Test tour of Sri Lanka in July. Steyn has struggled with various injuries in recent times, the latest of which was a heel injury he sustained on his return to Test cricket against Australia at Newlands in March. Prior to his heel injury, a shoulder injury had kept the Phalaborwa Express out for almost a year. Steyn has made good progress since his injury and has started bowling ‘fast’ again according to Proteas team doctor, Mohammed Moosajee, who also confirmed that Steyn will travel to England to play for county side Hampshire, which will determine whether he is fit for selection or not. “Dale Steyn has come through nicely and has started bowling at full pace again. The plan for him is to go to the UK next week to play a few games for Hampshire and that will almost serve as a fitness test for the Sri Lanka series.” Dr Moosajee also confirmed that Kagiso Rabada, who had missed the IPL due to a lower back injury, has started to do some light bowling but his progress will be taken on a week-by-week basis before a decision is made on his readiness for the Sri Lanka tour. “Kagiso Rabada is now 8 weeks post injury and is coming along nicely and has just started light bowling this week. He is progressing on schedule and should be available for selection, but a final decision will be made later.” The only cause for concern is the fitness of all-rounder Chris Morris, who also sustained a lower back injury and hasn’t yet recovered. “Chris Morris is our only genuine concern as he is six weeks post injury and still feeling some nerve symptoms. He is going to see an orthopedic specialist this week to get a second opinion on him.” The squads for the tour of Sri Lanka are set to be announced in the middle of June.