Captain Harry Kane will have to lead from the front in every sense of the word as he will hope to right the wrongs of previous World Cup campaigns where the Three Lions slipped up. JOHANNESBURG - Monday marks day 5 of the 2018 Fifa World Cup in Russia with Belgium and England – who both have a lot to prove – in action against Panama and Tunisia respectively. In the key game over tn Monday, England take on Tunisia. England’s Key Players: Harry Kane Captain Harry Kane will have to lead from the front in every sense of the word as he will hope to right the wrongs of previous World Cup campaigns where the Three Lions slipped up. The Tottenham Hotspur striker had a brilliant season in front of goal, but was overshadowed by Egypt’s, and Liverpool’s Mohamed Salah. Regardless, Tunisia will have to keep an eye on the striker considering he only needs half a chance to punish a defence. Delle Alli Another Spurs man who will be a threat from midfield. The 22-year-old has made just 25 appearances for his country, but his club experience and chemistry with, fellow teammate, Harry Kane will be more than enough to put pressure on the Tunisian defence. If Alli can keep his temper in check, England will go into the game feeling confident of walking away with three points. Tunisia’s Key Players Ellyes Skhiri Skhiri makes up a Tunisian team that has a total market value of just below 60 Million Euros. The 23-year-old has made 95 appearances for  HSC Montpellier and will be an important figure in the midfield against the likes of Eric Dier, Alli and Marcus Rashford. The experience in France will play a big part the team’s dynamic for the tournament. Wahbi Khazri Attacking midfielder, Wahbi Khazri, is one of the most experienced players in the Tunisian team and will be an important player during the offensive parts of the game against the English. Khazri has made more than 250 appearances at club level, including a stint at Sunderland where made 42 appearances for the English club. Ahmed’s Prediction: Tunisia 0 – 1 England Sweden v South Korea Match Preview: With the likes of Victor Lindelof, Martin Olsson and Sebastian Larsson, Sweden have a fair amount of experience in their side. However, with the absence of, the ever charismatic, Zlatan Ibrahimovic many believe Sweden may compete in a relatively hard group. Meanwhile, captained by Sung-yong Ki of Swansea and the experience of Spurs’ Heung-min Son the South Koreans have a relatively decent chance against, favourites, Sweden. Ahmed’s prediction: Sweden 2 – 1 South KoreaBelgium v Panama Match Preview A more experienced Belgian team with the likes of Kevin de Bruyne, Romelu Lukaku, Eden Hazard and, keeper, Thibaut Courtois, they go into the World Cup with more than enough first-team, trophy-winning experience. Many are expecting a brilliant performance from Roberto Martinez’s men. Panama head into the game as underdogs, which isn’t surprising, considering their market value, is estimated at just 8 million Euros. Captain Roman Torres will hope to contain as much as possible. Ahmed’s Prediction: Belgium 4 – 0 Panama Kick-off times (CAT): Sweden v South Korea 14h00 Belgium v Panama 17h00 Tunisia v England 20h00