His lawyer Nqobizitha Mlilo says Willemse maintains the incident was rooted in racism. JOHANNESBURG - Ashwin Willemse  and his legal counsel are preparing to take the non-racial findings of advocate Vincent Maleka  to the Equality Court as Willemse maintains that his walk out of a live broadcast last month was rooted in racism. Willemse’s lawyer Nqobizitha Mlilo says that they are willing to give SuperSport  the opportunity to speak to his client to find an amicable solution before they take the matter to court. "We are willing to give SuperSport the opportunity to speak to Ashwin, but if they come with the same stance they came with from day 1 that they believe there is no racism involved in this matter, then we will have no choice but to go to the Equality Court." Willemse walked out of a live broadcast following the conclusion of the Lions vs Brumbies match, saying that he was being patronised and undermined by fellow analysts Nick Mallet and Naas Botha. His lawyer says the reason he didn't take part in an investigation into what he believes was a racist incident, was that he felt SuperSport had already taken a stance on the issue. Mlilo says Willemse does not accept the investigation's finding and intends taking the matter to the Equality Court if he's unable to reach an amicable solution with SuperSport. “It effectively means we have exhausted all other options and the only option that would be available would be that of the Equality Court, where the evidence of everyone will be tested and be subject to cross-examination, and that is really what we want.” WATCH: SuperSport reports back on Ashwin Willemse walkout probe  Meanwhile, SuperSport says the inquiry into the incident was extensive and it stands by its findings despite the commentator not giving his input. SuperSport CEO Gideon Khobane has confirmed that Mallett and Botha will resume their in-studio duties soon after an investigation from Advocate Maleka concluded that they had not been racist when talking to fellow analyst Willemse. Khobane says the investigation concluded that there was no naked racism from both Mallet and Botha towards Willemse. “There was also no evidence of Naas or Nick exhibiting either intended or unintended subtle racism.” (Edited by Thapelo Lekabe)