Argentina's World Cup hopes are hanging by a thread and they will be hoping for a win and a few favours in their final group game. Argentina's World Cup hopes are hanging by a thread and they will be hoping for a win and a few favours in their final group game. Feature Match: Nigeria v Argentina Nigeria Key Players: Ahmed Musa (Forward)The former Leicester City midfielder was expected to be a key figure in his team’s victory over Iceland. That proved to be true following his brace in his last outing. If that performance was anything to go by, Nigeria’s next match may end in favour of the Super Eagles. Wilfred Ndidi (Midfielder)The 21-year-old commanded the centre of midfield against Iceland. His supportive play behind Kelechi Iheanacho helped create a number of chances for the Nigerians. Ndidi’s defensive work was just as impressive, winning eight aerial battles and making four tackles to protect his defence. Argentina Key Players: Lionel Messi (Forward)For the umpteenth time, fans are expecting Lionel Messi to perform in the colours of Argentina. Lionel Messi went up against Nigeria in 2010 and 2014 – scoring twice in Brazil. With this potentially being the end of the World Cup road for Lionel Messi, he is expected to put in a decent shift. Sergio Aguero (Striker)Despite, surprisingly, being taken off against Croatia, Sergio Aguero is no stranger to finding the back of the net. The Manchester City striker needs half a chance to punish Nigeria. If afforded time and space on the ball, he could be more effective than Messi has been so far. Ahmed’s Prediction: Nigeria 1-0 Argentina Iceland v Croatia: Match Preview Iceland still have a chance to advance to the Round of 16 if other results go their way. Luka Modric was a conductor leading an orchestra in the Croatian midfield against Argentina. He is a player that Iceland will have to contain. However, Croatia should not rest on the laurels with the likes of Gylfi Sigurdsson in the Icelandic midfield. Ahmed’s Prediction: Iceland 0-1 Croatia Denmark v France: Match Preview Denmark have to avoid defeat against France to qualify for the knockout stages. France’s first two wins - over Peru and Australia - was enough to see them qualify before the third round. Denmark will have a lot of work to do though, as France will be hoping for a more convincing performance compared to their first two matches. Ahmed’s Prediction: Denmark 1-1 France Australia v Peru Peru are fighting for nothing but pride when they take on Australia at the Fisht Stadium. Australia need all three points against Peru and hope that France beat Denmark. Australia will have to be clinical in their open play – especially considering the fact that their last three goals have come from the penalty spot. No team has scored four consecutive goals from the spot in the competition’s history – barring penalty shootouts. Ahmed’s Prediction: Australia 0-0 Peru Kick-off Times (CAT):Australia v Peru: 14h00Denmark v France: 14h00 Nigeria v Argentina: 20h00Iceland v Croatia: 20h00