The 33-year-old royal is busy preparing for the forthcoming sporting event, which sees wounded, injured or sick armed services personnel take part in different sports, in Sydney, Australia in October. LONDON - Prince Harry  has announced that the Invictus Games will be held in the Netherlands in 2020. The 33-year-old royal is busy preparing for the forthcoming sporting event, which sees wounded, injured or sick armed services personnel take part in different sports, in Sydney, Australia in October, but he's already decided that the fifth games will take place in The Hague as it will mark 75 years since liberation in the beautiful European country. The flame-haired prince said in a statement on the Invictus Games official website: "I am delighted to announce that The Hague is taking up the challenge of hosting the fifth Invictus Games in 2020. The city will soon become the motivation for hundreds of servicemen and women using the Invictus Games to inspire their recovery from physical and mental injuries. The Netherlands has supported the Games from the very beginning, and I know that everyone there will fully get behind and support the soldiers and veterans who have served their countries so bravely. We have already seen in London, Orlando, and Toronto just how exciting hosting the Invictus Games can be, and I know this will be an incredible experience for everyone in the Hague as they embrace the Invictus spirit in 2020." The Invictus Games The Hague 2020, will bring together over 500 competitors from 19 nations to compete in a series of adaptive sports. The Invictus Games The Hague 2020 Chairman, Lt Gen (ret) Mart de Kruif, said: "We are very honoured that the Invictus Games is coming to The Hague. 2020 is an important milestone for The Netherlands, marking 75 years since liberation. The Invictus Games provides the perfect opportunity for us to link the past to the present by paying a tribute to wounded, injured and sick service personnel who served, and are serving, the military. These role models have shown that the strength of the human spirit is unbeatable." Prince Harry launched the Invictus Games in London in 2014 and it has since been held in Orlando, Toronto and soon-to-be Sydney to bring servicemen and women together. The prince previously said that the Games would "demonstrate the power of sport to inspire recovery, support rehabilitation and demonstrate life beyond disability."