In January, the DA formally charged Patricia De Lille with a raft of misconduct charges based on the findings of a party sub-committee led by John Steenhuisen. CAPE TOWN - The case in which Cape Town Mayor Patricia De Lille is trying to gain access to a Democratic Alliance (DA) internal report on her alleged misconduct has been postponed until November. Fresh off the back of a court victory against the DA on Wednesday, De Lille was back in court on Thursday to challenge the so-called Steenhuisen report in which a number of findings are made against her. The report formed the basis of disciplinary steps against her. In January, the DA formally charged her with a raft of misconduct charges based on the findings of a party sub-committee led by DA chief whip John Steenhuisen. It found, among other things, there are deep divisions in the party's City of Cape Town caucus resulting from De Lille's alleged autocratic and divisive leadership style. It also alleged De Lille interfered with and manipulated the appointments of senior managers. De Lille now says she wants the evidence contained in the Steenhuisen report to prepare for disciplinary processes against her. “I was never given the evidence on which Steenhuisen based all these allegations, I was never given the names of the people, the sources or the dates when the complaints were received against me.” The matter was initially set to be heard on Thursday but has now been postponed to November because the DA only submitted its responding papers on Wednesday. WATCH: Court rules in favour of De Lille remaining a DA member  DE LILLE-DA BATTLE FAR FROM OVER There's no end in sight to De Lille's battle with the DA. She could face a third motion of no confidence in her leadership, as soon as the end of July. Following Wednesday's bruising defeat in the Western Cape High Court, the DA now plans to ask the full city council to again vote to remove her as mayor. But de Lille is unfazed and says she will fight it just as she's done on previous occasions. The legally prescribed period of 90 days has now passed since the DA moved its first motion of no confidence in De Lille in February. She won that vote of the full sitting of the council battle by a single vote. A second motion within the DA caucus only succeeded, allowing the party to recall her as mayor. The city's DA caucus is meeting tomorrow to discuss a confidential item related to a city executive. Deputy caucus leader JP Smith says they may decide to discuss the De Lille matter then. De Lille says she's unfussed. “I have and always been ready to defend myself and will vigorously defend myself should they bring a third motion of no confidence.” If the caucus agrees to another motion of no confidence, approval will first have to be obtained from the DA's Federal Executive, before the speaker can be asked to place it on the agenda at the next council meeting on 26 July.