Tuesday's fixtures sees the end of the first round as well as Russia taking on Egypt. Mohamed Salah is expected to start. Two of Monday’s fixtures will mark the end of the first round of fixtures for all the countries involved in the 2018 Fifa World Cup. The last match on Monday features Group A’s Russia and Egypt, which signals the start of round 2 of fixtures. The second fixture for each country is, more often than not, the most important match in the group stage. The feature match of the day sees, hosts, Russia take on Egypt, who will be energised at the prospect of Mohamed Salah starting the match. Feature Match: RUSSIA V EGYPT Russia’s key players: Aleksandr Golovin (Winger)A display as good as his hairstyle, the winger created two goals with wonderful crosses, one of which put the hosts in the lead on their way to an emphatic 5-0 win over Russia. Golovin managed to grab a goal for himself in injury time – albeit with the help of some poor goalkeeping. However, against a tougher Egyptian defence, the 22-year-old will have to be on top of his game to beat Ahmed Hegazi and co. Sergei Ignashevich (Midfielder)The World Cup's oldest player stood firm in defence against Saudi Arabia but will know there are sterner tests to come. His experience will go a long way in holding the Egyptian attack at bay, especially with the addition of Mohamed Salah, which will add extra impetus into play going forward. Egypt’s key players: Mohamed Salah (Forward)The most anticipated player that the world is waiting to see at the World Cup. Following his record-breaking season at Liverpool, the "Egyptian King", as he is fondly referred to at Anfield, will be making dashing runs down the wing. The Russian defence will need to be on high alert or hope that Sergio Ramos changes nationality to contain the 26-year-old. Mohamed El Shenawy (Goalkeeper)In his first competitive appearance for Egypt, El Shenawy made a number of important saves to prevent Luis Suarez and Edison Cavani from scoring for Uruguay. A finger-tip save from a Cavani volley was one of many standout moments in an impressive performance in goal. Unfortunately, the keeper could do nothing to prevent Gimenez’ late goal. Ahmed’s prediction: Russia 1–1 Egypt COLOMBIA V JAPAN: Match Preview: Colombia have a number of world-class players in their midst which will mark them as favourites going into the game against Japan. James Rodriguez, who made the world his own at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, will hope to repeat that brilliant performance on the international platform. Alongside the likes of Radamel Falcao, Davinson Sanchez and Juan Cuadrado, Colombia should comfortably win. However, a midfield consisting of Shinji Kagawa and Keisuke Honda will keep the defensive line of Colombia on their toes. Ahmed’s prediction: Colombia 2–0 Japan POLAND V SENEGAL Match Preview: Senegal will hope to claim Africa’s first win in the World Cup’s first round when they take on Poland. With Cheikhou Kouyaté and Sadio Mané in midfield, Senegal will go in to the match feeling confident that they can claim all three points. It will be a hard ask with the likes of Robert Lewandowski, Lukasz Piszczek and Wojciech Szczesny all heading into the game with more than enough first-class experience. Ahmed’s prediction: Poland 2–0 Senegal Kick-off times (CAT):Colombia v Japan 14h00Poland v Senegal 17h00Russia v Egypt 20h00