The Department of Water and Sanitation's Malusi Rayi says residents should keep up their water-saving efforts. CAPE TOWN - The Department of Water and Sanitation says the Western Cape’s dam levels are nowhere near what's needed to break the drought, despite days of rainfall in parts of the province. The province is currently in the grips of its worst drought in more than a decade. However, at least one dam has reached capacity partly thanks to a government initiative to redistribute water to the Misverstand Dam. The Department’s Malusi Rayi says residents should keep up their water-saving efforts. “We expect a lot of rain, but we call on citizens to keep on saving water. The resource is under a lot of strain. There will be rain with some possible localised flooding. We’ll know when we’re near to breaking the drought. We need a lot of rain.” On Monday, the City of Cape Town said it was encouraged by the downward trend in water usage and urged Capetonians to continue using as little water as possible. The city’s Deputy Mayor, Ian Neilson, said: “It is important that we carry on saving, irrespective of the weather, and continue to live the 50-litre life until the dams fill up sufficiently. The National Department of Water and Sanitation requires that we reduce our water usage to 450 million litres per day. There is a real threat that if we cannot lower usage further, then even tougher restrictions could be imposed by the national department.” Water restrictions remain in place for municipalities across the Western Cape. Current water restrictions for municipalities, according to the Western Cape government: Beaufort West Municipality - level 4BBergrivier Municipality - level 2Bitou Municipality - level 1Breede Valley Municipality - level 3BCederberg Municipality - level 2Cape Agulhas Municipality -  level 1City of Cape Town -  level 6B Drakenstein Municipality - level 6 George Municipality - level 2BHessequa Municipality - level 1Kannaland Municipality - level 3Knysna Municipality - level 3Laingsburg Municipality - level 1Langeberg Municipality - level 1Matzikama Municipality - level 2Mossel Bay Municipality - no restrictionsOverstrand Municipality - level 2Oudtshoorn Municipality - no restrictionsPrince Albert Municipality - level 1Saldanha Municipality - level 6B Stellenbosch Municipality - level 5 Swartland Municipality - level 5 Swellendam Municipality - no restrictionsTheeswaterskloof Municipality - level 3Witzenberg Municipality - level 4 (Edited by Shimoney Regter)