The prolific investment holding company sees the acquisition as part of their corporate social investment in the Winelands area. CAPE TOWN - Remgro Sports Investments (RSI) is close to buying National First Division Club Stellenbosch United. The prolific investment holding company sees the acquisition as part of their corporate social investment in the Winelands area. Remgro CEO Jannie Durand hopes the club can play an influential role in the wider Stellenbosch community. “We are in the process of doing that (signing the deal), it hasn’t been finalised yet. It’s part of our community investment programme to have a club in Stellenbosch for aspiring young people. We are so involved on a school level at developing young players, helping them and we want to see a pathway for them that they have in the Winelands a professional club that they can aspire to.” Remgro has a stake in the Blue Bulls Rugby Union, they recently sold their shares in the successful English rugby club Saracens and own the world-class Stellenbosch Academy of Sports facility. The investment from a multimillion-rand company could inject new life into the Stellenbosch soccer scene. Durand said the investment made sense as the popularity of soccer is increasing in the rugby-dominated town. “If you look at the Model C schools, all the schools they’re starting to follow soccer more and more. Soccer is becoming more and more popular. And you can see that in the region, after school all the kids are playing soccer. It’s amazing to see that.” Durand hopes soccer can be an outlet for the youngsters in the town with the club being a tangible goal on their journey to becoming a professional in the game. “We are putting in a lot of money into the sport and developing the young children, so we can create role models and they can also aspire to play for a club in the Winelands. There is a pathway, I call it the escalator, we invest in soccer and it must be one of their goals to play for Stellenbosch United.” Durand is also hoping Stellenbosch United will appeal to various demographics of the town and become a source of pride for the entire community. And, for the community, it’s something to strive for, it’s great for the community to go and support the club across all races of the Stellenbosch community. “Stellenbosch ended eight on the NFD standings, so Durand is circumspect when announcing their immediate goals as a club. You must always have a goal, I’m not saying it can happen soon but over a period of time hopefully, we can get to the Premiership.” (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)