In his apology, he says that the damage he has caused with his video is unacceptable and that he has been 'thoughtless and insensitive'. JOHANNESBURG - The Catzavelos family has confirmed the statement which is circulating on social media that Adam Catzavelos has apologised for his racist video. In his apology, he says that the damage he has caused with his video is unacceptable and that he has been "thoughtless and insensitive". Catzavelos says he has "shown a complete lack of understanding of what the people in our nation have endured."  In the video which emerged on Tuesday, Catzevelos expressed his joy at not seeing any black people at his holiday destination by referring to them as the k-word. The video has since gone viral.  Catzavelos has since been dismissed from the family business, St George’s Fine Foods, and the private Johannesburg school where his children are enrolled has banned the businessman from its premises. In a statement released on Friday morning, Catzavelos admits to insulting many South Africans, by using the K-word, something he says he is ashamed of. Catzavelos says he wants to “genuinely apologise” and that he doesn’t expect people to forgive him. He says he made a foolish and stupid comment, adding that he loves South Africa and is proud of its beauty and diversity. Catzevalos acknowledges that his racist rant makes it difficult for the country to move forward. He closes off his statement by apologising to his family, including his wife and children. However, Catzevalos’s statement may not be strong enough for all, with some people noting that he doesn’t overtly acknowledge his comments were racist. CRIMINAL COMPLAINT On Wednesday, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) laid a criminal complaint against the Joburg businessman at the Bramley Police Station. The EFF’s Mandisa Mashego says they’ve given the police enough evidence and information to assist them to act swiftly against Catzavelos. “We’ve given them everything, we’ve given them evidence. We’ve given them the guy’s address and we’ve even given them his ID number. There’s nothing for them to do, they must go and arrest.” Mashego has called on South Africans to boycott businesses owned by racist people. “His company has forced him to resign; we don’t care. They can do whatever they want to help make themselves feel better.” The EFF says it will also push for the criminalisation of racism in the country. At the same time, the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation has commended the quick call to action by the South African public for the racist remarks made Catzavelos. The foundation's Zaakirah Vadi says: “I think we should be applauding the public for taking this matter for calling out racism. “We must ensure that racists who are still blatantly and arrogantly racist are made to pay. And I think it’s quite sad that this takes place after the Penny Sparrow incident.” Additional reporting by Thando Kubheka.