Trollip has been ousted from the job through a no-confidence motion vote on Monday and UDM's Mongameli Bobani elected as his successor. JOHANNESBURG - The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has said it's unapologetic about the removal of Athol Trollip as Nelson Mandela Bay mayor. Trollip has been ousted from the job through a no-confidence motion vote on Monday, tabled by the EFF, and UDM's Mongameli Bobani elected as his successor. The motion was then backed by a coalition of the African National Congress and smaller parties. City council Speaker Jonathan Lawack was also shown the door. Red beret leader Julius Malema has accused Trollip of being obsessed with power. “The man is a position mourner, he’s crying for a position, he’s removed, and he’s got a recourse. If the DA was not anarchic like that, it would follow legal route and not insist that it is the man.” Malema says Trollip’s removal does not signify the rejection of the will of the people but is rather a reflection of the former mayor’s arrogance. “Trollip's insistence that he’s still the mayor is rendering Nelson Mandela Bay ungovernable. He’s an autocrat who’s unable to accept a democratic outcome.” Malema says the DA both in Nelson Mandela Bay and Tshwane needs to be reminded that it does not hold an absolute majority in either of the metros. “They do no consult other parties and have neglected black communities in the delivery of services.” The EFF maintains the decision to remove Trollip and Lawack in the same sitting is legal and says this will be proven in court. Malema also says his party will not oust Herman Mashaba because he says the Johannesburg mayor consults. WATCH: EFF briefs media on metros  At the same time, the Democratic Alliance (DA)  says its preparing to challenge Trollip's ouster. Sixty-one councillors remained in the Nelson Mandela Bay City Council Chamber after DA, African Christian Democratic Party and Congress of the People councillors abandoned proceedings on Monday following Lawack’s removal. The council meeting went ahead though during which the ANC's Buyelwa Mafaya was elected as Speaker to oversee proceedings. But DA leader Mmusi Maimane says this was unconstitutional. “The municipal manager was available. It is our contention that he was available to chair the meeting, he would’ve preceded over it and would’ve proceeded on that basis. A vacancy was declared to which the causus moved out and what was clear was that the process that moved on from that point on will not pass legal [tests].” Maimane adds the election of Bobani as mayor undermines the electorate. Meanwhile, on Monday, Bobani said he was unfazed by threats of a legal challenge. LISTEN: Mongameli Bobani: Call me the executive mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay  (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)