The EFF and the ANC have tabled separate motions and if they vote together, they have enough numbers to push Msimanga out. JOHANNESBURG - The Democratic Alliance (DA) has announced it will not field a candidate to take over from Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga on Thursday when the city council votes in a motion of no confidence against him. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and the African National Congress (ANC) have tabled separate motions and if they vote together, they have enough numbers to push Msimanga out. If the motion succeeds, Tshwane will be the second metro that the DA-led coalition government loses this week after Nelson Mandela Bay. The big question is; what does this mean for the DA? Especially as the country draws closer to elections in 2019. The kingmakers in the Tshwane council, the EFF, have made it clear they don’t want Msimanga as mayor anymore and they’ve committed to voting with the DA for the election of the new mayor. But DA leader Mmusi Maimane says the party’s Federal Council has decided it will not field another candidate. “So come tomorrow’s council meeting, we will not be fielding a different candidate. The caucus in Tshwane is resolute, the DA and the Federal Council executive is resolute on this matter. We stand united behind Solly Msimanga.” If this is the case, then Msimanga is as good as out given that the EFF and the ANC have enough numbers to oust him. DA READY TO BE OPPOSITION PARTY IN TSHWANE The DA says it’s ready to be an opposition party in Tshwane as Msimanga prepares to face a motion of no confidence. This decision by the DA has arguably sealed the deal, and it will likely see Msimanga out as mayor. This is because the ANC has already indicated it’s willing to support the EFF's motion of no confidence in Msimanga and abandon its own. But the two parties may only disagree on who takes over from the mayor. Maimane says they are ready to be in opposition. “Of course we are ready to be an opposition. We’re not in the government for our own jackets but for the people.” (Edited by Winnie Theletsane and Zamangwane Shange)