The former Steinhoff chief financial officer has been testifying before four parliamentary committees after he was subpoenaed to come and answer parliamentarians’ questions. CAPE TOWN - Steinhoff’s former chief financial officer Ben la Grange has told Parliament he’s sorry about the money lost through the collapse of the company’s share price and says he doesn’t think he deliberately did anything wrong. La Grange has been testifying before four parliamentary committees after he was subpoenaed to come and answer parliamentarians’ questions. La Grange stepped down as CFO in January. He says the losses suffered by pension funds is likely to be permanent as he doubts Steinhoff’s share price will ever return to what it was before the collapse. Flanked by his senior counsel, John Dickerson, Le Grange first made a statement: “I’m deeply saddened with the events that happened at Steinhoff and all the money that was lost, like most people involved in trying to save this business. I also do not think I did anything deliberately wrong.” La Grange has painted a picture of a complexed, global group with hundreds of subsidiary companies and multiple layers of reporting. La Grange says there was no single audit firm that was responsible for checking out the entire group, and that this allowed for things to slip through without being picked up. La Grange says several transactions that appeared to be valid, later turned out to have been done by third parties, who were apparently influenced by former Steinhoff CEO Markus Jooste. ‘I DID NOTHING WRONG’ La Grange has faced a cross-party barrage of questions about what he knew about wrongdoing at Steinhoff and when with his integrity coming under fire. La Grange’s told the hearing at Parliament that he was unaware of the accounting irregularities that led to the company’s share price collapse until December when Jooste quit. He says he stepped down in January to protect the company, which was facing the fury of investors. La Grange has been grilled by MPs across all parties, with Trade and Industry Committee chair Joan Fubbs questioning gaps in his submission. “When did you yourself become aware there was a strange smell in Steinhoff?” Democratic Alliance MP Alf Lees found it difficult to accept La Grange claiming his job was simply to consolidate group financial statements. “Your position as CFO was the one on which Investors in this group probably relied more than anything else.” Finance committee chair Yunus Carrim said: “It’s hard to believe the way you’re presenting it, that you were almost oblivious to what was happening.” La Grange’s insisting he did nothing wrong. WATCH: Parly committee progress report on Steinhoff probe  (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)