He was delighted that his 77th minute clinical finish ended the statistical oddity that he had never previously scored a Premier League goal in 14 attempts in that particular month. LONDON – Harry Kane finally ended his August goalscoring drought as England’s World Cup luminaries inspired Tottenham Hotspur to a morale-boosting 3-1 Premier League win over newcomers Fulham on Saturday. At the end of a week when news of their delayed move to their new stadium left fans frustrated, Spurs gave them plenty to cheer at their temporary home with England captain Kane and Kieran Trippier, who scored a glorious free kick, guiding them to victory. Spurs’ first-half dominance was rewarded by Lucas Moura’s clinical 43rd minute strike, his first league goal. However, Fulham hit back after the break as Aleksandar Mitrovic, soon after hitting the post, nodded home a 52nd-minute equaliser while on the floor. Three minutes after Trippier’s beauty, a similar effort to his strike against Croatia in the World Cup semi-final, Kane, who had already had an early goal disallowed and hit the bar, at last broke his August hoodoo. He was delighted that his 77th minute clinical finish ended the statistical oddity that he had never previously scored a Premier League goal in 14 attempts in that particular month. “Wish every game could be in August,” tweeted Kane afterwards, with tongue doubtless firmly in cheek. “It looked like it would be one of those days for me, but that is the game of a striker,” he also told Sky Sports after his goal sealed a second straight win for Spurs. “I thought we played really well and created a lot of chances. But credit to Fulham. Only after about 60 minutes did we start to take it into more dangerous areas.” Manager Mauricio Pochettino made no signings in the close season, with Kane again feeling that their display backed up the club’s policy. “The gaffer has said he is not going to just bring in players for the sake of it. We have been playing with each other for a long time this team,” said Kane. “It is a good start with two wins out of two.”