A total of 44 people were killed following during days of violence that during a protracted wage strike by workers at Lonmin platinum mine in the North West. JOHANNESBURG - Today marks exactly six years since the mass shooting in Marikana which stunned the world. A total of 44 people were killed following days of violence during a protracted wage strike by workers at the Lonmin platinum mine in the North West. Thirty-four miners were killed at the hands of police on this day. On the 16 August 2012, after 10 people had been killed, the then North West Police Commissioner, Zukiswa Mbombo, announced that the strike in Marikana must come to an end. The widows of the mineworkers have only recently signed a loss of support settlement. On Thursday, a number of events will be held in different parts of the country to commemorate those who lost their lives. Meanwhile, civil rights organisation Right2Know has called for urgent action to be taken against those who had a hand in the Marikana massacre, saying that no one has been held accountable six years on. Right2Know says it's shocking that no criminal charges have been laid against those implicated in the event after the Independent Police Investigative Directorate recommended that 71 police officers be charged. Right2Know's Thami Nkosi explains: “This is a moment to pause and reflect on some of the things that went wrong. We need to have an honest conversation about what happened and what we did wrong. We need to call for accountability. It’s shocking that nobody has faced the music for what transpired in Marikana.” WATCH: Ramaphosa: We failed South Africa in Marikana  Right2Know has also called for the public to use the anniversary of the Marikana Massacre to reflect on the seriousness of the event in a democratic South Africa. The organisation says that it is important to think critically about the killings and what led to them, calling for justice and compensation for the victims and their families. Thami Nkosi says: "Let's have a moment and reflect on who we are, where we are. Let's have a new social contract and let's exacerbate the voices and calls for accountability and responsibility from our government. So this is a day where we can say let's get back and look at the way the state conducted itself against the poor and the working class." (Edited by Shimoney Regter)