Amcu President Joseph Mathunjwa says the International Criminal Court should hold those responsible accountable. JOHANNESBURG - Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) President Joseph Mathunjwa  has described the Marikana massacre as a crime against humanity. He says the International Criminal Court (ICC) should hold those responsible accountable. Mathunjwa was delivering the keynote speech at the Marikana commemoration event where thousands of miners gathered to remember the 34 miners who were gunned down by police on this day in 2012. #MarikanaMassacre Widows of the mine workers killed 6 years ago lit candles and now holding wreaths as they remember their loved ones. PP pic.twitter.com/i1wp3AvtTa  He says the massacre should be reclassified as a crime against humanity. “It will require that those who issued the command to be brought before the ICC at The Hague in the Netherlands. No wonder our government recently wanted to pulling out as a member of the ICC.” Mathunjwa says justice must be served for those who lost their lives. “The day of the commander is coming; the legacy of the massacre will never go away until justice is served.” #MarikanaCommemoration Miners here in Marikana remember their 34 colleagues, who were killed by police in 2012. PP pic.twitter.com/yQj1qAkksA  THREATS OF TOTAL SHUT DOWN OVER RETRENCHMENTS Mathunjwa has threatened to shut down South African mines for 12 months if the sector continues with retrenchments. He says mines should find solutions to their financial problems other than retrenchments. He says the 2012 Marikana killings were no accident but a definite massacre and should be remembered as such. He's also called for 16 August to be declared a public holiday. Mathunjwa says there would be no mine which operates if Lonmin or any other mine continues with retrenchments. “I am telling you, we will never fail. I will give you 12 months for these mines not to work. The revolution is imminent.” He has also called on the National Prosecuting Authority to prosecute mine managers who are found to have contravened the health and safety regulations. Mathunjwa says while unemployment is high in the country, retrenchments should never be a solution. (Edited by Thapelo Lekabe)