The judge, who heads up the Davis Tax Committee which advises the finance minister, testified at the Nugent commission of inquiry in Pretoria on Friday. PRETORIA - Judge Dennis Davis has suggested a parliamentary process be among the mechanisms involved in appointing the South African Revenue Service (Sars) commissioner to hold the incumbent accountable. The judge, who heads up the Davis Tax Committee which advises the finance minister, testified at the Nugent commission of inquiry  in Pretoria on Friday. The commission is investigating the break down in systems and governance under Tom Moyane’s leadership. Davis says their first proposal on how to appoint a Sars commissioner would involve a parliamentary process. “Similar to the public protector that people could apply for the job. They would then be subjected to a committee of Parliament with proper public hearings.” He says the second approach is for the finance minister to make a recommendation which would then have to be approved by Parliament. “Both of those have this advantage, that at least you'd have the public know whether the commissioner knew something about tax and was a competent person. The way it worked with Mr. Moyane, as I understand it, there were a whole host of highly qualified people who were totally discarded and out came Moyane." This second session of public hearings concludes on Friday. ‘IT BECAME INCREDIBLY UNPLEASANT’ Davis says his relationship with Moyane soured to such a degree that he was advising the finance minister ahead of the last budget announcement without any input at all from Sars. The judge says the relationship turned ugly when Moyane falsely accused him of misrepresenting the commissioner at a public talk and then refused to accept any explanation. “The next thing the various Sars spokespeople were sort of viciously attacking me and saying I had to be removed. It became incredibly unpleasant, really unpleasant.” He says from then on information from Sars dried up. “And if you look at the last mount of reports that we gave, we were working now without any collaboration from Sars, none. I was having to advice the minister on where we should put up taxes or not, but without any cooperation from Sars.” Davis says the situation has changed since Moyane was suspended. (Edited by Thapelo Lekabe)