The season is far from over for every other team below The Citizens. There are three key fixtures over game week 29 that will have significant ramifications on the teams who have European aspirations. JOHANNESBURG - It’s fair to say that the English Premier League  title race is all but decided after Manchester City’s victory over Arsenal on Thursday evening. The season, however, is far from over for every other team below The Citizens. There are three key fixtures over game week 29 that will have significant ramifications on the teams who have European aspirations and for the teams who are fighting for survival. Two of those important fixtures kick-off at 5 pm on Saturday afternoon, 18th-placed host West Ham United who sit in 13th. The Hammers, however, are just three points ahead of The Swans which makes this game a six-pointer. A win for David Moyes’ men will go a long way in ensuring their survival next season. Swansea goes into the game off a 4-1 defeat to Brighton & Hove Albion, whilst the hosts go into the game after going down to Liverpool by the same scoreline. St. Mary’s will play host to Stoke City and Southampton. Stoke City is second from bottom, one point from safety – and their 16th placed counterparts. Both teams will need the three points. Stoke will welcome back Ryan Shawcross and Peter Crouch from injury. The Saints grabbed a late equaliser against Burnley last week and will hope for an improved performance. Referee Anthony Taylor will have to have his wits about him in this crucial encounter. Sunday sees a clash at the top of the table when Chelsea travel to the Etihad to take on Manchester City. Glancing at the fixture list at the beginning of the season, this fixture would have been marked as a title decider. It seems that this fixture may determine whether Chelsea finish in the top four or not. Going into the game, Chelsea two points behind fourth-placed Spurs, after losing to Manchester United last weekend. City seems to be in cruise control resting Raheem Sterling and Fernandinho for the league encounter on Thursday evening at Arsenal on Thursday night. It will be another interesting weekend of English football. The race for the top four finish and the fight for survival is far from over.