The club have confirmed they have accepted his resignation with immediate effect, replacing him for the remainder of the season with assistant Kaitano Tembo. JOHANNESBURG – SuperSport United head coach Eric Tinkler has resigned from his position, following the team’s 2-0 defeat to league strugglers Ajax Cape Town on Wednesday night. The club have confirmed they have accepted his resignation with immediate effect, replacing him for the remainder of the season with assistant Kaitano Tembo. SuperSport are sitting in 12th position on the league table and are just three points away from the relegation zone and winning only three of their last 18 games. Tinkler joined the club in July 2017 following Stuart Baxter’s resignation to join the National Team. Matsatsantsa enjoyed immediate success, winning the MTN8 and reaching the CAF Confederation Cup final. Tinkler cited reasons that he could not get a response from his players on the field. “I have been in discussion with club management about the poor performance of the team for a while now. In reflecting on the last few games, I have not been satisfied with the response out on the pitch. “I believe we can turn things around but the only way of getting out of our current position is to have a fully unified and committed response from the players and I haven’t been able to get that from them, so it seems best for all parties that we part ways. I wish the Club all the best and I am glad I could add to their trophy cabinet with MTN8.” SuperSport United CEO Stan Matthews said: "We decided to accept Eric’s resignation today. Clearly, the League results achieved have not been up to the standards we set for ourselves. “We have 17 consecutive top 8 finishes under our belt, so to be in the position we currently find ourselves is not easy to accept. We believe in the group of players we have, in their playing ability as well as their desire to fight for the Club.” “We wish Eric well in the future and thank him for his contribution in adding the MTN8 trophy to our cabinet, during his short spell at the club”.