Given the heightened stakes, fans and analysts are in for a treat. JOHANNESBURG - The result of a Manchester United vs Liverpool return fixture has not had such potential ramifications than the one taking place this weekend at Old Trafford. Manchester United is second on the log, one point behind ahead of their opponents and a mammoth 16 points behind Manchester City. This match will go a long way in determining who gets automatic Champions League qualification next season. Needless to say, beyond the league positions changing, this match is all about bragging rights between the rivals. However, given the heightened stakes, fans and analysts are in for a treat. Given the mind games and tactics that Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho has up his sleeve, predicting his set up is near impossible. Liverpool defender Dejan Lovren believes United will play for the draw. Manchester United will have to keep a tight eye on Mo Salah. The Liverpool midfielder has been in scintillating form for The Red this season, competing with Harry Kane for the Golden Boot. Liverpool, however, will have to keep Alexis Sanchez at bay. The former Arsenal, and Barcelona, forward will be hoping to have a performance similar to those that attracted United. Kick-off is at 2:30pm The other key fixture over the weekend is at Stamford Bridge when Crystal Palace travel to Chelsea. Roy Hodgson’s men let a two-goal lead slip on Monday evening to hand Manchester United a 3-2 win at Selhurst Park. Chelsea is hoping to keep the pressure on fourth-placed Tottenham Hotspur in the other subplot of the English Premier League: The race for the Champions League places. Kick-off is at 5pm At the bottom of the table, 16th-placed Newcastle host 17th-placed Southampton. Both teams are hovering above the drop zone. If results around them go against them, both teams may find themselves in the bottom three if the game ends in a draw. Newcastle is one point above the relegation zone whilst Newcastle United sit two points above. Kick-off is at 7:30PM In other fixtures this weekend: Saturday5:00pm Everton vs Brighton & Hove Albion Huddersfield Town vs Swansea City Sunday3:30pm Arsenal vs Watford 6:00pm AFC Bournemouth vs Tottenham Hotspur