The organisation is challenging an Equality Court application filed by the Nelson Mandela Foundation to ban the flag. JOHANNESBURG - AfriForum says if the old South African flag is banned, the LGBTI rainbow flag will follow too. The organisation is challenging an Equality Court application filed by the Nelson Mandela Foundation to ban the flag. The foundation filed the application to the court for an order declaring that displays of the apartheid flag constitute hate speech, unfair discrimination and harassment based on race. AfriForum’s Ernst Roets says: “The argument on why the old South African flag should be banned is because of its offence… there are many polls which found the majority of people in South Africa have a problem with homosexuality. It’s an extremely slippery slope if we try to say if something offends him or her and then that symbol has to be banned. If they really want to ban the flag they should come up with a better argument than that.” Roets says a ban is a violation of freedom of speech. “The problem that we have with this argument is that it’s a violation of speech and if we apply that argument consistently, we will create a precedent that will lead to all sorts of flags and symbols being banned.” The Mandela Foundation says the flag is a reminder of violence experienced during apartheid. However, Roets says by this logic, the African National Congress flag should also be sacked. “If we look at the numbers that were provided at the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, exponentially more people died as a result of the ANC’s so-called people’s war in the black townships than people who were actually killed by the apartheid government.” He claims this is not a defense of the old South African flag, adding that there is no flag in the country that does not represent bloodshed. “It’s not that we’re trying to defend the old South African flag, we don’t even use it but there’s virtually no flag of any country that does not in some way represent the bloodshed and the oppression.”