In what is, arguably, the match of the round, AC Milan hosts Arsenal in what would have been a mouth-watering final ten years ago. JOHANNESBURG - Round of 16 in the UEFA Europa League begins on Thursday evening with a few fixtures involving the heavyweights of ten years ago. In what is, arguably, the match of the round, AC Milan hosts Arsenal in what would have been a mouth-watering final ten years ago. AC Milan won the Champions League in 2007, beating Liverpool, while Arsenal appeared in the final a year before that, going down to Barcelona. Both these teams have a wealth of European experience in European football and will be hoping to use that to their advantage. Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger will be hoping for a resurgence from his players after a tumultuous few weeks, including two 3-0 losses to Manchester City, and a 2-1 loss to Brighton and Hove Albion. Winning the Europa League would be the only saving grace for Arsene Wenger this season. AC Milan have spent over 200 million euros in the off-season in an attempt to return to its former glory. Milan manager Gennaro Gattuso’s side will have Italian footballer, and Fiorentina captain, Davide Astori in their hearts going into the game after Astori passed away on 3 March. The former Italian giants go into the game off a five-game winning streak Over in Gemrany, Borrusia Dortmund host Salzburg. Dortmund’s defence has been leaky conceding six goals in their last five games. However, Salzburg coach Marco Rose will have to be on a good mental note as the German side go into the game having not lost a tie in five matches (W2 D3). Salzburg have found the back of the net frequently in its last few games, scoring 12 goals in their last three matches – including a 7-0 win over Austria Klagenfurt in Austrian Cup quarter-final. Over in Spain, Atletico Madrid take on Lokomotiv Moskva. Fernando Torres, Antoine Griezmann and Diego Costa will be putting pressure on the side sitting third in the Russian Premier League – Spartak Moscow. Atletico go into the game off a 1-0 loss to Barcelona. Kick-off in all these games is at 8PM. Also at 8pm, CSKA Moskva host Olympique Lyonnais. In the 10:05PM kick-offs: Sporting CP vs Viktoria Plzeň RB Leipzig vs Zenit Olympique Marseille vs Athletic Club Lazio vs Dynamo Kyiv