South Africans are usually known for dominating soccer, cricket and rugby, while also doing well in athletics, netball and even tennis. One sport the country isn’t popular for is American football. JOHANNESBURG - South Africans are usually known for dominating soccer, cricket and rugby, while also doing well in athletics, netball and even tennis. One sport the country isn’t known for is American football. A couple of South African-born athletes have tried their luck in the United States with football, but only one has gone and made a real career of it – that being Gary Anderson. Anderson was born in Parys, Free State in 1959 and became the first South African to play a regular season game in the NFL in the 1980s. Since then, American football hasn’t been something South African athletes have cared for, until this year. Gerhard de Beer a 23-year-old born and raised in Pretoria has signaled his intentions of breaking into the NFL by the end of this year, at the very latest. De Beer is a college football player for the Arizona Wildcats and is usually used as a tight-end, or in simpler sports terminology, an offensive player. He joined Arizona six years ago after it was the only university that allowed him to take up discus and American football at the same time, following his reluctance to let go of his beloved discus. The longer his love for football grew, the less attention he gave to discus and as soon as he completed his degree in 2017, football received all his attention, so much so that he was even invited to feature in the NFL Players Association Collegiate Bowl – where college players look to impress for a chance to grab attention from NFL stakeholders. Speaking exclusively to EWN Sport, De Beer says he fell in love with football instantly... “The coach told me, we have a great football team, the ground has been sold out for this many games in a row and I asked if I can play and he said no. I then asked around if schools would allow me to, so I ended up in Arizona because they would allow me to play." He says when he chose discus, he wanted to do something different from rugby. “Every young kid growing up, especially in Pretoria, says 'I want to play for the Blue Bulls'. It was a difficult choice to make to choose discus over rugby and I never fully did it because I still love rugby and I miss it. Contact sport ended up winning in the end because now I play football which is more dangerous.” If De Beer is hoping that his NFL career takes off this year, he’ll certainly have his eyes on his name coming up at the 2018 NFL player draft which will be taking place between 26 April and 28 April. Looking at the state of athletics in his home country, De Beer believes it’s not in good shape right now. “Athletics in South Africa is currently having a hard time and there’s a lot of politics involved with it and coming over to America was kind of a way to relieve that pressure." The former Afrikaanse Hoer Seunskool, (commonly known as Affies) student still holds high school records in two different age groups, 7 years after leaving school. After the country celebrated the achievements of Africa’s first Major League Baseball player, Gift Ngoepe, last year, De Beer will be hoping that he gets showered with the same love should he crack it in one of the most popular American sports.