The first match gets underway at the King Zwelethini Stadium at 8pm on Friday evening when Amazulu host Ubuntu Cape Town. JOHANNESBURG - The Nedbank Cup takes over the next five days of South African football when the round of 32 matches begin on Friday night. All attempts will be made to topple the giants of South African football in the cup - which enters its 47th year under various names – to claim the R6 million prize money. The first match gets underway at the King Zwelethini Stadium at 8 pm on Friday evening when Amazulu host Ubuntu Cape Town. Amazulu beat Mthatha Bucks 3-2 penalties after a 0-0 draw in the previous round. Ubuntu Cape Town had enough goals for two games in their game against Polokwane City in the previous round – beating their opponents 3-2. Siyambonga Madikane scored the winner in the 114th minute. There are three matches on Saturday; two of them kicking off at the 3:30 pm when Free State Stars host Chippa United at Gobble Park while Baroka FC host Steenberg United at the Peter Mokaba Stadium. Mohammed Anas scored a 95th-minute winner for Stars on the 14th of February. He’ll be glad not to have done a post-match interview then considering his history on camera. Steenberg United beat Orbit College in the round of 32. If cup competition traditions are to continue, it will not be surprising to see Steenberg progress. In Saturday’s late clash, it really is David vs Goliath when Kaizer Chiefs host Stellenbosch United at the Moses Mabhida Stadium. The boys from the Western Cape beat Highlands Park to progress to the round of 32 while Chiefs beat Golden Arrows, comfortably, 3-0. Amakhosi have the opportunity to lick their wounds after their 3-1 loss to rivals Orlando Pirates. Kick-off is at 8:15 pm. Then on Sunday, Royal Eagles take on Maritzburg United at the Princess Magogo Stadium at 3:30 pm. The Eagles beat the Happy Wanderers 1-0; while Maritzburg United beat Swallows FC 3-1 AET in the previous round with Andrea Fileccia scoring a brace on the day. Bloemfontein Celtic host Richards Bay at the Dr. Molemela at the same time.