David Warner admits that his response was a bit emotional, but says that he will always defend his family and his teammates. JOHANNESBURG - Australian vice-captain David Warner has broken his silence about what South Africa’s wicketkeeper batsman Quinton de Kock said to him while walking up the stairway towards the players' dressing room during the tea interval on Day 4 of the first Test at Kingsmead in Durban on Sunday. Warner told Cricket Australia’s website cricket.com.au, that De Kock had made a ‘disgusting’ comment about his wife Candice Warner. Warner admits that his response was a bit emotional but says that he will always defend his family and his teammates. "I cop it left, right and centre, especially off the field from spectators and I'm used to that and it doesn't bother me." "But in a proximity of my personal space and from behind me, a comment that was vile and disgusting about my wife, and in general about a lady, was quite poor I felt. "My emotional response was just something that I don't believe should have been said and I'll always stick up for my family and in that case my teammates as well." Both Warner and De Kock have been slapped with level 2 and 1 sanctions respectively, with Warner receiving a hefty 75% match fee fine. De Kock decided to contest his sanction on Wednesday but the International Cricket Council upheld its decision to deduct 25% of his match fee and one demerit point. Warner said that his intentions were never to get physical with De Kock. "I would have liked him to actually say the comment a little bit louder instead of just muttering it under his breath next to me and Tim Paine and then walking up the stairs and saying, 'I didn't say anything' as soon as the rest of his team came out. "At the end of the day, we're all men and if you're going to say something, you look at someone in the eye and say it." Warner also refuted claims that he had made comments about De Kock’s sister and mother during the Test match. The two teams now focus their attention on the second Test match at St George's Park in Port Elizabeth starting on Friday.