Ajax coach Muhsin Ertugral says it was the best display by his side since he took over. CAPE TOWN - Ajax Cape Town got a much needed 2-0 win against the hapless SuperSport United at the Athlone Stadium. The three points were deserved for the home team as they spring out of the relegation zone while SuperSport remain in 12th spot. In a match where Ajax created the majority of goal-scoring chances, it ended goalless at the half-time break. However, after the break, the home team eventually buried a chance as the impressive Fagrie Lakay accurately placed a low shot to give Ajax the lead against his parent club. Thereafter, Ajax sat back but caught SuperSport on the counter as central defender Mario Booysen struck from close range after a goalkeeping mistake by Ronwen Williams. Ajax coach Muhsin Ertugral says it was the best display by his side since he took over. “The game against Orlando Pirates was defensive but today it was playing and defensive moments.” Ertugral had no doubt that his team were superior on the night. “It has to do with the situation where the team is… we sometimes go too far back. We need to be aware of these elements. I can’t single out an individual player and say he was better, everyone did their job. It’s marvelous to watch the team at that level.” Ertugral said his plan worked perfectly. “For me, the process was if we could get one goal… the process would’ve been to go back and close the shop while working for a countdown. It worked for us and we had the countdown.” SuperSport coach Eric Tinkler says he still has the appetite for the job. “I’ve been in this situation many times; as a player and as a coach. I have to remain positive. I still believe we have enough depth in our squad to get us out of this conundrum.” Tinkler admitted that it’s a testing period for him. “It’s been very difficult… the players respond off me and I have to be brave enough to take responsibility for the losses and keep them motivated.” Tinkler says at this point they are in a relegation scrap. “It’s the harsh reality that we find ourselves in now. We've got to be strong enough to get ourselves out of this position. We need to relay that message to the training ground to the players. We can’t allow complacency or the confidence to drop.”