Brian Currin has given testimony about the emails contained in three hard drives he was given by whistleblowers in Nairobi earlier this year. JOHANNESBURG - Lawyer Brian Currin has told the state capture inquiry that the purpose of obtaining the so-called Gupta leaks is to assist the inquiry to uncover the truth about widespread corruption. Currin has given testimony about the emails contained in three hard drives he was given by whistleblowers in Nairobi earlier this year. Evidence leader Paul Pretorius  has been motivating why these hard drives containing thousands of emails between the Gupta brothers and government officials should be admitted as evidence. Currin says he handed over the data to the commission in a bid to end state capture. “To assist this commission with its work to be able to make appropriate recommendations so that the scourge of corruption in this country in both the public and private sector could be addressed. That was the ultimate objective.” Earlier, Currin has told the inquiry that the decision to publish the leaked emails was taken after the Zondo commission's terms of reference were announced. He's been taking Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo through the sequence of events that lead to the discovery of the Gupta emails. DETAILS INTO HARD DRIVES Currin has gone into great detail about how he transported hard drives containing emails known as the Gupta leaks between South Africa and Kenya before they were delivered to the state capture commission of inquiry. The commission did not reveal Currin’s identity before Thursday morning given the sensitive evidence he’s been sharing with the commission about thousands of Gupta emails, and the safety of whistleblowers he’s been working with. Currin says the commission now has the hard drives. “The ultimate use of this evidence was to be able to make it available to a credible commission of inquiry in South Africa that would be able to use it to assist this commission with its work and be able to make appropriate recommendations.” He has been excused and the commission is dealing with the legal aspects of submitting the data as evidence. (Edited by Thapelo Lekabe)