Rassie Erasmus has a confirmed Twickenham date with the Barbarians when they take on Argentina in the Killik Cup match on Saturday, 1 December. JOHANNESBURG - SA Rugby’s director of rugby Rassie Erasmus will take charge of the Barbarians for the first time when the famous club returns to action later this season. Just days after the Springboks recorded a superb first win in New Zealand in nine years when they beat the All Blacks by 36-34 in Wellington last weekend in a Castle Lager Rugby Championship Test match, Erasmus has a confirmed Twickenham date with the Barbarians when they take on Argentina in the Killik Cup match on Saturday, 1 December. The Barbarians side pulled off a record-breaking win over England earlier this year when the famous invitational side won 63-45. “It’s a terrific honour to be invited to coach the Barbarians later this year and it should be a great occasion at Twickenham,” said Erasmus. “The Barbarians are renowned for bringing together great individuals and the challenge for coaches is moulding them into a team that plays wonderful rugby, which they certainly showed earlier this year against England. “There’s a lot of important games for South Africa between now and then but the chance to work with a new group and take on Argentina once more will be a great end to the year.” The Pumas, who won the last fixture between the sides in 2015, made history of their own last weekend with a 23-19 win over the Wallabies in Australia - their first there in 35 years. Erasmus will coach a squad full of international greats and three Springboks have already accepted invitations to line up against the Pumas - Handré Pollard (flyhalf), Eben Etzebeth (lock) and Tendai Mtawarira (prop) will join the Baa-baas in London after South Africa’s November internationals against England, France, Scotland and Wales. They will be joined by Wallaby scrumhalf Will Genia, who will be in Europe with Australia for their Tests against Wales, Italy and England. More big name acquisitions will be announced in due course.