8 people were killed when propellant in the Rheinmetall Denel Munition depot in Macassar ignited on Monday. Minister Pravin Gordhan says the investigation team is drawn from various organisations. CAPE TOWN - Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan has extended his condolences to the families of those killed in this week's Denel  explosion. Gordhan is visiting the site on Friday afternoon. “At this point in time, it’s a very sensitive moment for the families because there are all these forensic processes that need to be concluded before any definitive answers can be given to questions we all have.” Eight people were killed when propellant in the Rheinmetall Denel Munition depot in Macassar ignited on Monday. WATCH: Gordhan urges patience as Denel explosion investigation continues  At the same time, a multi-disciplinary team will be collaborating to try to get to the bottom of the deadly explosion. Gordhan says the investigation team is drawn from various organisations. “The investigation themselves are being conducted by the South African Police Service, the Department of Labour and an independent specialist appointed by the company, so we might have an independent view of what might have been the cause of the explosion.” He says it's impossible to say what might have caused the blast at this stage. “There are various scenarios that are possible, the investigators and the investigation process will explore each of the possibilities.” The minister has called for tolerance as the investigation process unfolds. “I know everybody wants to know what caused this explosion. It is impossible to say at this point.” Gordhan says it's likely to take months before a cause is determined. The blast sent shockwaves through surrounding areas. WATCH: Cause of Denel explosion remains unknown  MULTIDISCIPLINARY INVESTIGATION TEAM A multidisciplinary investigation team is in for a tough few months as they try to determine what caused the deadly blast. That's because hardly any evidence was left following the explosion. Rheinmetall Denel Munition CEO Norbeit Schulze says they’ve been playing open cards with the public since the incident happened. “We’ve not hidden away any information, which we’re not sure of and which is not evident to us, but it could be, especially on this particular one, a very lengthy process.” The company employs 2,200 workers in five locations across the country. Six-hundred-and-fifty workers are employed at the site where the explosion happened.