State capture inquiry's evidence leader Advocate Paul Pretorius says it's highly improbable that the data on the hard drives is fake as claimed by the Guptas. JOHANNESBURG - The state capture inquiry's evidence leader advocate Paul Pretorius said the three hard drives containing the emails known as the Gupta leaks  are authentic and should be admitted as evidence. Pretorius said the Zondo commission obtained the drives from two whistleblowers in March in Nairobi. He said they contain over 200,000 emails between the Gupta family members. Pretorius says it's highly improbable that the data on the hard drives is fake as claimed by the Guptas. “It is impossible to fake that whole environment, certainly in a manner which would avoid detection through proper investigation and analysis. What we are asking you to do chair, is to admit the hard drives initially for that purpose and presentation of evidence.” At the same time, lawyer Brian Currin has told the state capture inquiry that the decision to publish the so-called Gupta leaks was taken after the Zondo commission's terms of reference were announced. Currin is the latest witness to testify at the commission. He's taking Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo through the sequence of events that lead to the discovery of the Gupta emails. He's described the three hard drives that contain thousands of emails sent between the Guptas and Duduzane Zuma outlining how they did business with government and Cabinet ministers. Currin’s testimony relates to the application by the commission’s legal team to admit the hard drives into evidence. He explains why he decided the time was right to publish. “The finalisation of the commission’s terms of reference, which previously had cost me a level of concern with those having been amended and published, were all positive indicators of an inquisitorial judicial process that would indeed be independent [and] credible. A process I felt I could engage with absolute confidence.” WATCH: State capture commission of inquiry - Day 16  (Edited by Mihlali Ntsabo)