Malema says many attending the funeral at the Orlando Stadium are guilty of turning their backs on her, including the United Democratic Front. JOHANNESBURG – Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema has launched a fiery attack on those he says betrayed Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Malema says many attending the funeral at the Orlando Stadium are guilty of turning their backs on her, including the former movement the United Democratic Front. “Mama, why did the UDF call a press conference to disassociate themselves from you? Because you were never a member of the UDF, you were a member of the ANC. You were the only one pronouncing the ANC in the 80s. Why did the UDF see the need to disassociate with a person who was not their member?” He says members of the African National Congress Women’s League also betrayed her. “All those who resigned from the NEC from the Women’s League because they said they could not associate with a ‘criminal’, they are here. Some of them have played prominent roles in your funeral. In a funeral of a person they called a criminal and a person they were ready to humiliate in front of the whole world.” Malema says he did not intend to display disrespect during the service but wanted to send a message. “Mama, you never told me how to treat them when they come here. I’m waiting for a signal, Mama, on how to treat them.” He adds: “They must never think we have forgotten what they did to you. We see you in your beautiful suits, betrayers.” Malema had close ties with the struggle icon. MALEMA PLEDGES HIS SUPPORT TO MADIKIZELA-MANDELA FAMILY Malema has used his tribute to the woman he regarded as his mother to pledge his eternal support to the family. He also told mourners those who sold her out had the audacity to attend her funeral. The EFF leader lashed out at the ANC, saying the party turned its back on her when she was being persecuted. Malema confirmed the mother of Stompie Sepiei, the 14-year-old who Madikizela-Mandela was accused of murdering, was among the thousands at Orlando Stadium. He initially started off in an amicable tone, recognising all the different parties, leagues and former presidents except for Jacob Zuma. He then went on to remind mourners of her love for the youth and education. “Mama you knew that sustainability of economic freedom is going to rely on education. Equally so big mama, some of those who sold you out to the regime are here.” As Malema progressed into his tribute, he began calling out people who he says sold out on the struggle icon and crucified the mother of the nation, he added "they are here today" playing an important role in her funeral. “What is funny mama, is that they are crying the loudest, more than all of us who cared for you.” Malema continuously called on the struggle icon to give him guidance on how to treat the people who he says were responsible for her persecution and suffering. WATCH LIVE: Mama Winnie laid to rest  Follow EWN's live blog for all the latest updates. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)