Mauricio Pochettino’s side went eight points clear of fifth-placed Chelsea with a 3-1 Premier League victory at Stamford Bridge last weekend, virtually securing their third consecutive appearance in Europe’s elite competition. LONDON - Tottenham Hotspur can consider it a successful season if they become Champions League regulars and end their trophy-drought by winning the FA Cup, their talismanic striker Harry Kane has said. Mauricio Pochettino’s side went eight points clear of fifth-placed Chelsea with a 3-1 Premier League victory at Stamford Bridge last weekend, virtually securing their third consecutive appearance in Europe’s elite competition. “It’s important we maintain (Champions League involvement). We don’t just want to be a team that gets there for one or two years and then falls off,” Kane told British media. “We deserve to be there. We showed this year in the Champions League that we can compete with the best. “Obviously, it was disappointing to go out (against Juventus), but we had some great results, so we want to be there again next year and do the same.” Spurs have reached the FA Cup semi-finals for the second consecutive season and Kane is determined to help the club win their first major trophy since their League Cup triumph in 2008. Manchester United take on Spurs for a place in the final at Wembley on 21 April, while Chelsea face Southampton in the other semi-final a day later. “We’re trying to win a trophy and we’re in a good spot,” Kane said. “We’ve got a tough game against Manchester United in the semi-final, but if we can get through that we maybe play Chelsea or Southampton and go from there.” After twisting his ankle against Bournemouth last month, the English striker returned to the bench ahead of schedule against Chelsea last weekend. Kane now hopes to rediscover his scoring touch and reignite the race for the Premier League’s golden boot with Liverpool’s Mohamed Salah, who is five goals ahead of him on 29. “Salah’s done fantastically well. He’s a great, great player,” Kane, who finished last two seasons as the league’s top scorer, said. “It’s competition. I had the same last year. He’s obviously got a bit of a head start now and we’ll see what happens.”