Leroy Sane got City  up and running in the 13th minute as his strike from the edge of the penalty area was deflected in by Patrice Evra. LONDON - Manchester City secured a comfortable 4-1 win over West Ham United at the London Stadium on Sunday to move within two of the Premier League’s single-season points record. PFA Young Player of the Year Leroy Sane got City — confirmed as Premier League champions two weeks ago — up and running in the 13th minute as his strike from the edge of the penalty area was deflected in by Patrice Evra. Former City defender Pablo Zabaleta put through his own net 14 minutes later to score City’s 100th Premier League goal of the season before Aaron Cresswell curled home a 42nd-minute free kick to get West Ham back in it. Second-half goals from Gabriel Jesus and Fernandinho made sure of the win, leaving West Ham three points above the relegation zone in 15th. City’s tally of 102 goals for the season is one off Chelsea’s Premier League record set in 2009-10. They have 93 points, two short of the Premier League best which was also set by Chelsea in 2004-2005. “We wanted to win today so that we can get the record of 96 points at home when we get the trophy in front of our people next week,” City manager Pep Guardiola said. Adrian started in goal for West Ham, with loanee Joe Hart unable to face his parent club, but the Spaniard could do nothing as Sane — back in the team at the expense of David Silva — saw his powerful strike go in off Evra’s head. Soon enough it was two as Zabaleta put through his own net against his former club. “We didn’t do things as well as we should,” West Ham manager David Moyes said. You need things to go for you and a bit of good fortune when you play a team like Manchester City.” West Ham did improve and got themselves back in the match after Cresswell curled a free kick into the bottom corner. The West Ham fans’ joy was short-lived, however, as City upped the ante after the break. Gabriel Jesus converted from close range in the 53rd minute after a flowing move before Fernandinho stroked home to make it four nine minutes later. The rest of the match was a procession for City as they strolled to a 30th win of the season, equalling the record for victories in a Premier League campaign.