The struggle stalwart has died at the age of 81. JOHANNESBURG - To some, she was the Mother of the Nation. To others, a provocative and often violent figure. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was a fierce political activist, a controversial politician – and the ex-wife of world icon and former President Nelson Mandela. Together and apart, they fought apartheid to its end. Madikizela-Mandela was both celebrated and condemned: popular among her supporters, but reviled by others for alleged human rights abuses. Born in the Transkei in 1936, Madikizela Mandela joined the ANC in the mid-1950s. She met Nelson Mandela in 1957, while he was being tried for treason, and they married a year later. The couple had two children - Zindzi and Zenani – but they barely knew their activist father. During many of the 27 years that her husband was behind bars, Madikizela-Mandela also led a lonely, isolated and restricted life.   She faced banning orders, arbitrary arrest, police harassment, house arrest and jail. In the later years of Mandela’s imprisonment, his wife emerged as a leading figure in the struggle. But Madikizela-Mandela’s reputation as a freedom fighter was tarnished by her violent rhetoric and her ties to the Mandela United Football Club - which she established and whose members were her personal bodyguards. They were implicated in a string of robberies, assaults and murders – including that of 14-year-old ANC activist Stompie Seipei. Madikizela-Mandela shrugged off much of the criticism against her to be on her husband’s arm when Nelson Mandela was finally released from prison in 1990. She cut the figure of a loyal companion that day, but the couple’s marriage ended just two years later. In 1991, Madikizela-Mandela was convicted of Sepei’s kidnapping and later resigned all her ANC leadership positions. But in 1993 she bounced back as the President of ANC Women’s League – and remained a parliamentarian for almost a decade.   1n 1997, Madikizela-Mandela faced harsh questions at the Truth and Reconciliation Commission hearings over her alleged involvement in a reign of terror in Soweto. In the immediate aftermath of the TRC, she declined a nomination to run as ANC deputy president – and Jacob Zuma was elected unopposed. The final political blow came in 2003, when Madikizela-Mandela was convicted of fraud. She resigned from all political office – but remained high on the ANC lists in the years to come, a testament to her popularity and standing. In 2013, as the world mourned Madiba’s death – Madikizela-Mandela recounted how she’d been at his side at the very end. Left out of Mandela’s will, she tried and failed in a court bid to inherit the family’s Qunu home. Madikizela-Mandela’s ongoing health problems – related to her diabetes and a bad back – prevented her from accepting a national order awarded to her in 2016. Her granddaughter Zoleka did so on her behalf. Mama Winnie was lauded at that ceremony as a formidable force – a courageous woman who became a symbol of the struggle against apartheid. But she leaves a mixed legacy – tinged with controversy, conflict and violence. In her own words – the mother of the nation was, in the end, a product of the masses of her country, and of her enemy.