Deputy president David Mabuza appealed to the public to continue supporting the family of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela as they mourn her death. JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress (ANC) deputy president David Mabuza says that unity is the best gift South Africans can give the late Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. He’s also appealed to the public to continue supporting her family as they mourn her death. Members of the ANC national executive committee (NEC) visited the struggle icon’s family in Soweto on Thursday as part of the 10-day mourning period in the lead up to her funeral on 14 April. Madikizela-Mandela died on Monday at the age of 81. The ANC’s top six leaders have visited her Soweto home to pay their respects and sign a condolence book. WATCH: ANC NEC visits #WinnieMandela’s home  Colourful black, green and yellow dresses, struggle songs blasting through a speaker and elderly women dancing to jazz music are all adding to the mood in front of Madikizela-Mandela’s house. The condolences book has been signed by the ANC leadership and is now available to the public to jot down a few words for the late struggle icon. Mabuza has addressed supporters outside the house, thanking them. “As the ANC, we hold this name in high esteem, we respect this leader and we’re saying to all of you celebrate this life and what you can learn from a life that was well lived.” President Cyril Ramaphosa was expected to attend Thursday’s special NEC visit but he was not able to join.  'BEST GIFT FOR OUR FALLEN HERO' Mabuza says the ANC will “pick up the pieces”, unite the party and intensify the struggle against poverty in line with the wishes of Madikizela-Mandela. Mabuza says the country owes it to Madikizela-Mandela to be united, given all she’s done for South Africa. “ANC members must unite, take over the spear and proceed… unity within our ranks. The renewal of our movement… the struggle continues, that’s the best gift we can give to our fallen hero.” LISTEN: Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, the feminist  Mabuza signed a condolence book which will remain on a table outside the Soweto house for the public to sign. More books will be made available in all nine provinces. Several ANC NEC members attended a private event with the bereaved family onside Madikizela-Mandela’s home on Thursday morning. Outside members of the public continue to stop by the house to pay their respects.   (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)