The squad also features nine Springboks and a few young players that have represented the Junior Springboks in the last campaign. JOHANNESBURG - The Blue Bulls have announced their 38-man squad for the 2018 Super Rugby season and it doesn’t feature Springbok scrumhalf Rudy Paige. The squad comprises of 21 forwards and 17 backs, in a mix of youth and experience. Head coach John Mitchell has named two co-captains in center Burger Odendaal and loose forward Nick de Jager, with former Springbok captain Adriaan Strauss, relieved of his Bulls captaincy duties. The squad also features nine Springboks and a few young players that have represented the Junior Springboks in the last campaign. The big omission from the squad is 13-Test Springbok Rudy Paige, who is replaced by former Baby Boks player Embrose Papier in the squad. Paige, who is currently recovering from a groin injury and is expected to be fit at the end of February, doesn’t look like he will be representing the Bulls in this year’s campaign. Mitchell explained Paige’s exclusion from the squad, and said that a younger approach to the half backs was the way forward for the Bulls. “He (Paige) has been fantastic for the club. He's made it his life in recent years and has given a lot, but I just thought it was time to move forward with the young No 9s. I like a very fast No 9 and certainly all the No 9s that we've selected have that ability." The Bulls start their Super Rugby preparations with a warm-up game against the Sharks in Polokwane on 27 January. Bulls squad: Outside Backs: Warrick Gelant, Duncan Matthews, Travis Ismaiel, Jamba Ulengo, Jade Stighling, Divan Rossouw. Midfielders: Burger Odendaal, JT Jackson, Francois Brummer, Jesse Kriel, Johnny Kotze Flyhalves: Handre Pollard, Marnitz Boshoff, Manie Libbok Halfbacks: Ivan van Zyl, Andre Warner, Embrose Papier Loose Forwards: Roelof Smit, Ruan Steenkamp, Hendre Stassen, Hanro Liebenberg, Jannes Kirsten, Nic de Jager, Tim Agaba. Locks: Jason Jenkins, Ruben van Heerden, RG Snyman, Lood de Jager, Aston Fortuin. Props: Pierre Schoeman, Conraad van Vuuren, Frans van Wyk, Matthys Basson, Lizo Gqoboka, Trevor Nyakane. Hookers: Jaco Visagie, Adriaan Strauss, Edgar Marutlulle