US diplomats have been trying to address shock and condemnation after trump reportedly compared African countries to a filthy toilet. JOHANNESBURG - US President Donald Trump has written a letter to African leaders saying he “deeply respects” the people of Africa. The Associated Press is reporting that US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will also make an “extended visit” to the continent in March. US diplomats have been trying to address shock and condemnation after Trump reportedly compared African countries to a filthy toilet. The letter comes as African nations are gathering for the AU Summit in Addis Ababa, where Trump’s remarks are expected to be a hot topic. The theme of the summit this year is “Winning the fight against corruption: A sustainable path to Africa’s transformation.” On Saturday, Trump asked Rwandan President Paul Kagame to send his best regards to African leaders at the AU summit. Earlier in January, Trump received worldwide condemnation for his remark on migrants from African countries. Trump questioned why the United States would want to have immigrants from Haiti and African nations, referring to some as “shithole countries,” according to two sources familiar with the comments. Trump’s remarks, made in the White House, came as Democratic Senator Dick Durbin and Republican Senator Lindsey Graham briefed the president on a newly drafted immigration bill being touted by a bipartisan group of senators, according to the sources, who asked not to be identified. Facing strong condemnation at home and abroad, Trump later denied using the word “shithole” to describe Haiti and African countries. Meanwhile, President Jacob Zuma, who joined other African leaders on Saturday for the 30th AU Summit, has been mandated to present the SADC common position on the AU institutional reforms as adopted by the 37th SADC summit in August 2017. Presidency spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga said: “It is expected that the 36th Session of the NEPAD heads of state meeting will convene on the margins of the summit. Zuma will participate in the session, where he’ll present a report on the implementation of infrastructure development projects on the African continent.” Additional reporting by Reuters.