The rain poured down my window as I woke up to the news of Bra Hugh’s passing on Tuesday morning. As if poetic, a sign of mourning from a city that became his adopted home for some of the many years he spent in exile. New York helped shape the man he became and the music he created - though he was always, vigorously so, a son of Africa. Trumpeter, composer, lyricist, singer, bandleader, father, struggle activist - Hugh Ramopolo Masekela filled his life with almost as many roles as he recorded albums. Born in Witbank, he spent much of early career in exile, 30 years to be exact, escaping the political unrest in apartheid South Africa, but never stopping the fight to end the segregation laws from across the country’s borders. He came to New York City in the early 1960s at the encouragement of his former wife, the late Miriam Makeba, who was already living here. She and Harry Belafonte ensured he enrolled at the Manhattan School of Music where he studied jazz. But the education he received as he became part of the city’s flourishing jazz scene would prove to be even more instrumental. In the company of Coltrane, Monk, Mingus, Gillespie, and of course Davis, who - the story goes - urged him to develop his own sound, Masekela found his space. He earned a chart-topping number one hit with Grazing in the Grass in 1968, became friends with Jimi Hendrix, played trumpet on singles for The Byrds and performed at the Monterey Pop Festival. Later, after writing the seminal anti-apartheid protest anthem, Bring Him Back Home (Nelson Mandela), he would return to New York once again, in the late 1980s, to craft the music for the stage production Sarafina!, along with playwright Mbongeni Ngema. The show received five Tony Award nominations before being made into a movie. New York is a city to which he returned often, welcomed with proverbial open arms - whether on stage at Carnegie Hall or in Central Park. “Try and eat well. Avoid the things you like,” he chuckled, during an interview I did with him on the occasion of his 75th birthday. “But seriously, I recommend laughing. Try and laugh every day,” he had concluded. The concert he played for that milestone birthday at Dizzy’s in Jazz at Lincoln Center was one of those magical New York City nights, where Paul Simon, who had featured Masekela on his landmark Graceland album, joined him on stage together with songbird Sibongile Khumalo, as they paid tribute to Bob Dylan, Fela Kuti and, of course, Madiba. NYC reflected the greater admiration Masekela enjoyed here in the US. During the weekend of US President Barack Obama's re-inauguration in 2013, he was honoured with the Keeper of the Flame award from the African American Churches in DC. A few weeks later, he was up for his second Grammy nomination in the best world music category, but lost out to a posthumous Ravi Shankar record. He toured and played for charity regularly. Last year, he was meant to reunite the Jazz Epistles, a group considered to be the forefathers of South African jazz, with Abdullah Ibrahim, for a major tour. But his cancer battle prevented that. A baobab of music, an icon who spoke his mind, at times vigorously, Masekela’s contributions to the canon of South African culture and world music far outweigh the 40-odd albums he recorded. What an honour to have his music to remember him by, but also that gravelly-voiced, hearty laugh of his too. May his soul rest in peace and may his trumpet forever play on. Nadia Neophytou is a freelance entertainment correspondent for Eyewitness News based in New York. Follow her on Twitter: @NadiaNeophytou