Keshav Maharaj has enjoyed a successful 18 months in international cricket, which has seen him cement his place as the South Africa’s number one spinner in Test match cricket. Maharaj’s rise has rendered all spin bowling hopefuls in the country surplus to requirements. Dane Piedt, who has done very little wrong while donning the colours of his country, hasn’t played for the Proteas since the New Zealand series in August 2016, where he only picked up two wickets. Simon Harmer has been the other spinner deployed in recent times, but has since signed a Kolpak deal with English county side Essex. What has set Maharaj apart from his counterparts is his ability to control the game for Faf du Plessis’ side, and an uncanny ability to pick up crucial wickets. In fact, Maharaj is the fastest spinner to reach 50 wickets since South Africa’s readmission to international competition in 1992, and the joint second-fastest in South Africa’s history.  But the most impressive fact about Maharaj is that he has achieved all this success in conditions that don’t necessarily suit him. He has played his 14 Test matches in South Africa, England, New Zealand and Australia, and is yet to play in the sub-continent. Though Maharaj’s star has risen in recent times, he’s biggest test will come in the form of having to bowl to the game’s most revered player of spin, Indian captain Virat Kohli during the side's visit to South Africa for a three-match Test series starting at Newlands in Cape Town on 5 January. Kohli and the rest of the Indian batsmen have been breastfed on spin bowling on the dusty pitches of Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Rajkot and Indore to name but a few. The Indian captain’s record against left-arm spin particularly is a good one. Of the 28 innings where he has faced left-arm spin, he has only been dismissed six times by left-arm spinners. Sri Lanka’s ace spinner Rangana Herath is the only left-arm spinner that has dismissed Kohli twice, while Australia’s Steve O’Keefe, Bangladesh's Shakib ul Hassan and England’s Monty Panesar have all dismissed him once.  It is clear that Maharaj will have his work cut out for him if he is to be successful against Kohli and the rest of the Indian batsmen. But in his 14 Tests, he has proven that his control, persistence and confidence have led to him being one of Du Plessis’ go-to men in the South African attack.  His recent 5/59 against Zimbabwe in the last Test of 2017 will give him confidence, but he will know that Kohli and the Indians will pose a different threat to his credentials as the Proteas' ace spinner.