
                                            The defending league champions have been struggling in their title defence this season and find themselves rooted to the bottom of the log.
                                         JOHANNESBURG- The defending Absa Premier League champions Bidvest Wits will be looking to stem their struggles in their title defense, having only registered two wins all season. They are rooted to the bottom of the log and face possible relegation from top flight football, just 12 months after lifting the PSL title.  Much of Wits’ woes this season have been injury-enforced, with much of their squad having to spend sometime in the medical room. They had to do without star defenders Buhle Mkhwanazi and captain Thulani Hlatshwayo for much of the initial part of their title defense through injury. Their signings have also not offered the impact that coach Gavin Hunt was expecting them to deliver. Former Bafana Bafana midfielder Steven Pienaar joined the champions from English Premier League side Sunderland but has since been released by the club after barely six months at the club, while Daylon Claasen, who was brought in from German Club 1860 Munich, has also failed to impress his new employers and teammates.  Wits’ woes have not only been limited to their injury and the lack of impact from their star acquisitions, their form in front of goal has also been less than impressive. Hunt’s men have only scored a dismal 7 goals in 15 games so far this season. They have also conceded 18 goals, which is the third highest in the league so far.  The Clever Boys have also started the year on a bad note following their 1-0 defeat to Free State Stars on 5 January. They will have a chance to collect some much needed points that will elevate them from the foot of the table when they come up against rivals SuperSport United on Wednesday at the Bidvest Stadium.  SuperSport, who are sitting 12th on the log, will also be gunning to collect all three points against the struggling champions, which will see them leapfrog Polokwane City and Golden Arrows into 10th.  Matsatsantsa go into the clash coming off a draw against the Glamour Boys, Kaizer Chiefs, and will be slightly more confident than their opponents on Wednesday night.  The match will kick-off at 19:30 at the Bidvest Stadium in Johannesburg.