
                                            Polokwane City came from a goal down to beat log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns 3-2 at in a thrilling encounter the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane on Saturday.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Polokwane City came from a goal down to beat log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns 3-2 at in a thrilling encounter the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane on Saturday.  The African champions stormed out of the blocks, and imposed themselves early in the game, when George Lebese put them ahead as early as the third minute of the game. Lebese was the benefactor of a brilliant pin-point cross from Hlompo Kekana from the right-hand side flank to calmly slot in the ball into an empty net.  Sundowns dominated the early exchanges at a scorching hot Polokwane with talisman Percy Tau at his menacing best, as he found plenty of space down the right-hand touch line, but his left foot shot was straight at the keeper. Tau was at it again, this time through the middle, and again George Chigova pulled off a brilliant save to deny Sundowns a second goal. Tau squandered plenty of chances to double Sundowns’ lead in the first half, and they were made to regret those missed chances early in the second half, when Polokwane City were awarded a free kick just outside the box. Sammy Seabi’s powerful header from the free kick, put Polokwane level, and it was game on. Rise and Shine’s confidence then grew with that goal and a minute later, a lapse in concentration from Sundowns at the back gave Walter Musona an easy chance to slot home.  Oupa Manyisa pulled Sundowns level again, through a beautiful through ball from Tau and it was drama again at the Peter Mokaba Stadium.  Experienced Rodney Ramagalela then scored a brilliant goal with 10 minutes to go, to successfully register a come-from-behind victory for Polokwane City.  The victory sees Polokwane City move up to 11th on the log, while the defeat for Sundowns means that their lead at the top has been cut down to just a single point.  In the other results from the weekend, Chippa United beat Amazulu 2-0, Bloemfontein Celtic overcame Golden Arrows 2-1, a Roland Putche goal ensured that Cape Town City beat Platinum Stars 1-0, Orlando Pirates thrashed Baroka FC 3-1, Kaizer Chiefs and SuperSport United played out to a goalless draw, Maritzburg United beat Ajax Cape Town 2-1 in Muhsin Ertugral’s first game in charge, while Wits’ woes continued when they went down 1-0 to Free State Stars. 