
                                            This was Wits’ third league win of the campaign and saw them leapfrog Ajax Cape Town into 15th position on the log.
                                         JOHANNESBURG- The Absa Premier League defending champions Bidvest Wits finally climbed off the foot of the league table following their 2-0 win over SuperSport United at the Bidvest Stadium in Johannesburg on Wednesday night.  The hosts were in goal scoring mood, and flew out of the blocks early on in the match. New January signing Lehlohonolo Majoro provided Wits with the first chance of the game, when he leapt higher than his marker to head at goal but his attempt was brilliantly saved by SuperSport goalkeeper Reyaad Pieterse.  Wits were dominant with Majoro and James Keene menacing the SuperSport defense in the first half. The first goal, though, came from an unlikely source, in defender Bongani Khumalo. Wits won a corner, and when SuperSport couldn’t deal with the set-piece, Khumalo pounced and scored after a goal mouth scramble to put the Clever Boys 1-0 ahead.  There would be more trouble for SuperSport coach Eric Tinkler and his team, three minutes later. Captain Thulani Hlatshwayo, who was playing in an unfamiliar right back position, rose up high to guide a beautiful header into the path of Keene who, under pressure from the defender, showed great strength and determination to slide the ball past Pieterse in goal, and give Wits a 2-0 lead inside the first quarter of the game.  This was Wits’ third league win of the campaign and saw them leapfrog Ajax Cape Town, who lost 2-1 to Mamelodi Sundowns on Tuesday in Cape Town, into 15th position on the log. For SuperSport, it was their seventh game without a win in the league, and they didn’t look like scoring a goal in the match. They have also been embroiled in transfer speculation over striker Jeremy Brockie, who is being courted by Sundowns and various other clubs in the league. Wits coach Gavin Hunt said that the January signings have been good for them so far in the second half of the season.  "The new guys have really been good since they have came in. Against Free State Stars they were good and the most important thing, is that they are team men and that’s what we need at this stage, guys that are willing to play for the team."  SuperSport United coach Eric Tinkler questioned his team’s desire to win in the loss to Wits.  “The honeymoon stage is over now, and I think tonight we didn’t show enough desire and hunger to win as much as they did. You could see that they were hungry for this game and we simply weren’t good enough.”  