The Momentum One Cup has reached the business end of the season, and the defending champions the Titans will clash against last season's losing finalists, the Warriors, at SuperSport Park in Centurion on Tuesday. JOHANNESBURG- The Momentum One Day Cup has reached the business end of the season, and the defending champions, the Titans, will clash against last season's losing finalists, the Warriors, at SuperSport Park in Centurion on Tuesday. In a repeat of last year's final, where the Titans thrashed the Warriors by 236 runs at the same venue, the clash promises to provide the same entertainment as last season. In the final from last season, the Titans’ mammoth total of 425/5 was boosted by masterclass hundreds from Proteas Test opener Aiden Makram (161) and the ageless Henry Davids (114). The Titans won’t have Markram available for this clash, as the opener is preparing to face India in the ODI leg of the tour. Mark Boucher’s men will be looking to add yet another domestic limited overs title to their glistening trophy cabinet, should they get past a plucky Warriors side in the semi-final. They have already collected the Ram Slam T20 title this season, their third consecutive domestic T20 trophy. The Warriors have been able to recreate their fighting spirit from last season which saw them compete in the finals of both the 50 over and 20 over competitions, but they will know that their record against the Titans in the knock-out phase of the competition doesn’t make for good reading. Titans captain Albie Morkel says that it is always nice to play in front of his home crowd in a knock-out game. “Its always nice playing in front of your home crowd, and we have played against the Warriors over the past two years with great success.” Morkel, however, isn’t resting on his and his team’s laurels and knows the threat that the Warriors can pose. “They have a very good white ball side, they have a few dangerous players, not only with the bat but with the ball as well. We are very much wary of them, but we know if we can do the basics right on the day, we should do well.” The first ball of the semi-final is due to be bowled at 13:30 on Tuesday afternoon.