
                                            Proteas Captain Faf du Plessis was in a jovial mood on the eve of the second Test match against India at SuperSport Park in Centurion.

                                         CENTURION - Proteas Captain Faf du Plessis was in a jovial mood on the eve of the second Test match against India at SuperSport Park in Centurion. He has good reason to be in a jovial mood, with his side taking a 1-0 lead into the match after completing a thrilling 72-run victory against the sub-continent opponents at Newlands in Cape Town, inside four days.  As thrilling as the first Test was in Cape Town, it came with an injury to veteran fast bowler Dale Steyn.  Steyn injured his heel while bowling on day 2 of the first Test, and has been subsequently ruled out of the remainder of the series.  This injury has created further headaches for the selection panel, as they try to decide who should replace the 'Phalaborwa Express'. Fast bowlers Duanne Olivier and Lungi Ngidi have been added to the squad.  Despite the selection challenge, du Plessis says that their approach for this Test match won’t change from the customary aggressive way in which they want to play their cricket.  “Certainly myself and the coach’s view is to always try and look for the aggressive approach, and whatever way we can have an advantage over a team.” The Proteas captain also says that they will look for any way possible to put the Indian batsmen on the back foot. “We are going to look at anything possible to take them out of their comfort zones. In the last game it was pace, and it worked, so we are definitely going to look at more ways to upset them a little bit.” The pitch conditions at SuperSport Park are again the centre of the conversation, and du Plessis believes that they will be similar conditions to those in Cape Town, where a total of 20 wickets fell inside four days.  Although du Plessis is confident that his side can seal the series with one Test match to go in Johannesburg, he is also wary of the ability of the Indians to bounce back from the loss at Newlands.  “I expect another huge performance from them. They are an incredibly strong side and if you sit back and rely on a 1-0 lead against India and relax, they will pounce.”  Day 1 from Centurion will get underway on Saturday morning at 10:00.