
                                            Proteas fast bowler Kagiso Rabada is the world's the number 1 test match bowler. EWN looks at some of his highlights during his rise to the top.

                                         JOHANNESBURG - Proteas fast bowler Kagiso Rabada is the pick of the world's test match bowlers. On Tuesday the International Cricket Council confirmed the former St Stithians pupil as test cricket's premier bowler at the moment, pushing veteran seamer James Anderson into second place. Let’s take a look at the top five moments in the 22-year-old's test career that has seen him rise to the summit of the test ranks. Test debut vs India: Rabada became the 321st test match player to represent South Africa, when he made his test match debut against his current opponents India, in Mohali in 2015. As one of the stars of South Africa’s Under-19 World Cup-winning squad from 2014, it took only a year for the former Saints pupil to make his test debut. KG, as he is affectionately known, also holds the South African first-class cricket record for the best bowling figures in a match, after his 14 for 105 surpassed the previous record held by the prolific Dale Steyn.  First test wicket: It didn’t take long for Rabada to register his first test wicket, and what a wicket it was! Rabada had Indian captain Virat Kohli caught in the gully by Dean Elgar, and claimed his maiden test wicket.  First 5-wicket haul: Rabada claimed his first ever fifer (derived from "five wickets for") in only his fifth test match. Facing England in the fourth test at Newlands in Cape Town in 2016, Rabada led a depleted South African attack that was missing Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel. It was impressive how the young Rabada took responsibility to lead the Proteas attack in a tough series which South Africa lost 2-1.  First 10-wicket haul:That fourth test against England again! Rabada firmly announced himself on the world stage as he claimed figures of 13/144 to help his side claim a consolation win in the series.  100 Test Wickets:By now Rabada’s star was firmly on the rise, and when Bangladesh came to South Africa in August 2017, history beckoned for the 22-year-old Rabada. Rabada’s match haul of 10/63‚ in the second test match against Bangladesh in Bloemfontein, etched his name into the record books. The performance marked the third time he had taken 10 wickets in only 22 tests‚ and made him the leading bowler in test cricket in 2017. At 22 he became the youngest cricketer to claim 100 scalps for South Africa.