India reached 183/5 at the end of day 2 of the second Test match against South Africa at SuperSport Park in Centurion. CENTURION- In sweltering hot conditions, the Proteas  resumed the second day on 269/6 in their first innings after a dramatic end to the first day as they lost four late wickets in the last session of play. Captain Faf du Plessis  and Keshav Maharaj  resumed on 24 and 10 respectively and were looking to guide their side to a strong first innings total. Maharaj could only add eight runs to his overnight score when he was caught behind by Parthiv Patel off the bowling of Mohammed Shami for 18. Du Plessis then went on the pursuit of quick runs to boost his teams total and went on the attack. He soon notched up his half-century but was bowled by Ishant Sharma for a well-played 63. South Africa’s tail failed to contribute much, as South Africa added 66 runs to their overnight total to be eventually bowled out for a first innings total of 335, 10 mins before the lunch interval. India had to face an over of spin from Maharaj before they reached lunch on 4/0. Morne Morkel struck shortly after lunch when he removed KL Rahul for 10, hanging onto a brilliant catch off his own bowling. The very next ball, Pujara took on Lungi Ngidi at mid-on, thinking that the debutant fast bowler was on his heels, but Ngidi reacted the quickest and ran the Indian batsman out for a duck. Captain Virat Kohli and Murali Vijay then combined for a threatening 79 run partnership, that made the South African bowlers toil hard in the Centurion sun. The introduction of Maharaj brought about the breakthrough. Vijay had been attempting to cut the entire Maharaj over, before he finally cut one into the gloves of de Kock behind the stumps, out for a classy 46. Rohit Sharma failed to contribute much to the Indian tally as he fell to an inspired spell of aggressive bowling by Kagiso Rabada. But Kohli was looking in an ominous mood, as he brought up his 16th test half-century. Then the big moment of the day came when Ngidi got his first ever Test match wicket. Ngidi was in the middle of a good spell and induced an edge from the bat of Parthiv Patel on 19. Ngidi said that it was a dream come true for him to play his first test match at his home ground and getting his first wicket. “It’s always been a dream of mine to play test cricket and for it to come at my home ground I can safely say that it is a dream come true.” Ngidi also spoke about the run out of Patel “It first I didn’t think he was going to run, I just focused on the ball and when I looked up again he was halfway done the pitch so it was good to hit from the angle I was in” India will resume day 3 on 183/5 still training the South African first innings by 152 with Virat Kohli unbeaten on 85 and Hardik Pandya on 11.