
                                            Tens of thousands of people have protested across the country since Thursday against the Islamic Republic’s government and clerical elite.

                                         TEHRAN - Ten people were killed during the street protests in Iran on Sunday, state television said on Monday without giving details. “In the events of last night, unfortunately a total of about 10 people were killed in several cities,” it said, while showing footage of damage from anti-government demonstrations. Anti-government protesters demonstrated on Sunday in defiance of a warning by authorities of a crackdown, extending for a fourth day one of the most audacious challenges to the clerical leadership since pro-reform unrest in 2009. Giving his first public reaction to the protests, President Hassan Rouhani appealed for calm, saying Iranians had the right to protest and criticise the authorities. But he warned, according to official media: “The government will show no tolerance for those who damage public properties, violate public order and create unrest in the society.” Tens of thousands of people have protested across the country since Thursday against the Islamic Republic’s government and clerical elite. Police in the centre of Tehran fired water cannons to try to disperse demonstrators, according to pictures on social media. Demonstrations turned violent in Shahin Shahr in central Iran. Videos showed protesters attacking the police, turning over a car and setting it on fire. Reuters could not immediately verify the authenticity of the footage. There were also reports of demonstrations in the western cities of Sanandaj and Kermanshah as well as Chabahar in the southeast and Ilam and Izeh in the southwest. Demonstrators initially vented their anger over economic hardships and alleged corruption, but the protests took on a rare political dimension, with a growing number of people calling on Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei to step down. The protests were the biggest since unrest in 2009 that followed the disputed re-election of then-President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.