The Proteas take an unassailable 2-0 lead into the third Test at the Bullring, with two impressive wins in Cape Town and Centurion. JOHANNESBURG - For the first time, this series we could see South Africa play an all-pace attack in the third Test match against India at the Wanderers starting on Wednesday morning. The Proteas take an unassailable 2-0 lead into the third Test at the Bullring, with two impressive wins in Cape Town and Centurion. In the more exciting game so far in the series at Newlands, the Proteas clinched a thrilling 72 run victory, after they bowled the Indians out for 135 on the fourth day, with Vernon Philander the chief destroyer with figures of 6/42 in a master class display of seam bowling. The second Test at Centurion was a much tougher encounter, where the South Africans were made to grind out for their 135-run victory for all five days, in a match were Lungi Ngidi announced himself in the Test arena with match figures of 7/90 on debut. The Indians though are returning to a ground they have enjoyed the most success on in South Africa. They have played four matches at the Wanderers, and have drawn three of them, and recorded a famous win back in 2006. Captain Faf du Plessis has acknowledged the Indian’s record at the ground and has likened it to his own team’s brilliant record at the old WACA ground in Perth Australia. “Some grounds you get a bit of confidence in the way you play, and you run with it, I can think of a place like Perth in Australia for us, we have never lost there, and I guess they will rely on that too.” To counter the Indian’s advantage at the Wanderers, du Plessis might have a trick up his sleeve. The Proteas captain hinted that they might leave out the left arm spin of Keshav Maharaj, in favour of a more ruthless all seam bowling approach. “Playing without the spin option is something we have been talking about, we spoke about it before the game in Centurion because the ball doesn’t spin there regularly.” Du Plessis said they might consider going with an all-rounder option in Andile Phehlukwayo, or add an extra batsman in Theunis de Bruyn, which will alleviate the pressure on struggling wicketkeeper and batsman Quinton de Kock. Should the Proteas decide to go with the all-rounder or extra batsman option in Phehlukwayo and De Bruyn, it would be the first time in the series that they will go with an all-seam attack.