Cape Town’s mayor Patricia De Lille is no stranger to political castigation and controversy. Her most recent attack came from her own party - the DA. Which quickly seems to be turning into the grim reaper of its female members. Wielding its searing sickle around willy-nilly and cutting off colleagues in the process. But De Lille remains undefeated. On Thursday, Aunty Pat survived the motion of no confidence brought against her by the same party she serves by a single vote. 224 councillors participated in the vote, with 110 voting against the motion of no confidence and 109 voting for it, while 3 voters abstained – skin-of-her-teeth stuff but winning nonetheless. Aunty Pat came out victorious in spite of the fact that she argued for the ballot to be secret - a request, which was refused and resulted in the mayor storming out of the chamber. An enraged Aunty Pat is not a surprising thing. But her willingness to participate so openly with her range of human emotion is admirable. Here are some other instances in which De Lille did the things: In 2014 De Lille personally visited 9 of the city’s beaches as part of the festive season’s ‘I love my beach’ campaign. Unlike a lot of other politicians, the exercise didn’t end and begin with the dishing out of free T-shirts. No. Not this mayor. She built sandcastles with the kids, played some cricket, did some digging and cleaning up and even had a bit of a swim. The second Cape Town Games for Older Persons took place in 2015 and De Lille dressed up and showed up. She was there to declare the games open. But there’s more, she also participated in the event and took part in several activities. She is a champion at being a bit of a badass. She’s a whistle-blowing government shamer. Examples to follow. In 2000 she levelled charges against Thabo Mbeki’s presidency and Cabinet for official corruption in the $4.5 billion arms deal scandal with European suppliers, blowing the lid off the controversy and resulting in a full-scale investigation. More government shaming: She once marched a team of cameramen from television stations into a prison for juvenile offenders to reveal how they were living in mite-infested cells… with adults. When Mbeki dragged his feet in the fight against Aids, aunty Pat played the role of a much-needed vocal critic. Let’s stay on Mbeki a bit here just so we can mention how she held him accountable for being reluctant to hold Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe accountable for violations of human and civil rights. She spat some bars when she rapped her way through a campaign against drug abuse. The song, released in 2012, was 1 minute long and featured artists like DJ Ready D and Khanyi. In it, De Lille raps: “Don’t smart, be smart. Drug free is the way to be”. Before she gets the mic though, DJ Ready introduces her by saying: “Come roll with the mother of the city. Let’s roll with the Mayor Aunty Patty”. Let’s not forget, that before Helen Zille was in your face all the time, Aunty Pat was the first woman to lead a political party in South Africa that contested elections and won seats. The party in question was the Independent Democrats formed in 2003. And finally, there was that time in 2017 De Lille told women to “klap back” when they find themselves in an abusive relationship. And… This week, she certainly has.  Haji Mohamed Dawjee is a commentator on gender equality, sexuality, culture, race relations and feminism as well as ethics in the South African media environment. Follow her on Twitter.