Berg River High School student Namhla Mayeki says she’s hopeful President Cyril Ramaphosa will prioritise job creation among the youth. CAPE TOWN/JOHANNESBURG - A Cape Winelands high school student says she believes newly-elected President Cyril Ramaphosa will change the lives of young people in South Africa. Namhla Mayeki was one of the school children who took part in the ceremonial parade held before the delivery of the State of The Nation Address (Sona) in Parliament. Parliament, this year, invited learners from secondary schools in the Cape Winelands region to take part in a junior guard of honour. Berg River High School student Mayeki says it’s been an honour for her to be a part of a historic event. “I’m amazed that I’m here… starting a new era with South Africans.” The 15-year-old says she’s hopeful Ramaphosa will prioritise job creation among the youth. “More should be done for the youth since our employment rate is low.”  During his speech, Ramaphosa promised the nation, job creation, especially for the youth, is at the centre of government’s national agenda in 2018. Meanwhile, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has welcomed Ramaphosa’s address, saying the party will hold him to account if he doesn’t implement the plans. EFF leader Julius Malema said: “We welcome the expropriation of land without compensation. We also welcome the reducing of departments because we’ve been saying the government is too big. We’re more than happy that he’s made a commitment to continue arresting the criminals who have been stealing from our government. Therefore, we’ll be holding him accountable.” WATCH: Opposition parties want Ramaphosa to deliver on Sona promises  UNITY President Ramaphosa has called for unity and for the country to move forward, leaving the recent turmoil behind. He says state-owned enterprises will receive urgent attention and corruption will be dealt with swiftly. During his Sona address, Ramaphosa said, in the tradition of Madiba, all South Africans enjoy the same rights. “We’re continuing the long walk he begun to build a society in which all may be free, equal before the law and share in the wealth of our land.” Ramaphosa thanked many dignitaries in attendance, including former president Thabo Mbeki and FW de Klerk and former president Jacob Zuma. “I wish to extend a word of gratitude to former President Jacob Zuma for the manner in which he approached this difficult and sensitive process.” Ramaphosa says there needs to be a focus on job creation. “The matric pass rate increased from 60.6% in 2009 to 75.1% in 2017, that’s phenomenal progress.” WATCH: Job creation at centre of 2018 agenda 