Minister Bathabile Dlamini was not present during Sona, but President Ramaphosa didn’t mince his words that the lives of the vulnerable cannot be toyed with. CAPE TOWN - President Cyril Ramaphosa has given his strongest indication yet that a shake-up could be on the cards for the Social Development Department. Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini was not present in the House when he delivered the State of the Nation Address, but Ramaphosa didn’t mince his words that the lives of the vulnerable cannot be toyed with. As the clock ticks down to another Constitutional Court deadline, Ramaphosa has promised decisive action. Dlamini is in Sweden attending a conference on violence against children. But back in Parliament, President Ramaphosa was meting out a scathing rebuke to her department and moving to allay fears that the payment of grants is in jeopardy. “We will urgently take decisive steps to comply with all directives of the Constitutional Court.” He says he will act to ensure that no one in government undermines the court deadlines. With just over a month to go until the Social Development Agency is supposed to take charge of grant payments, an impasse still exists over its relationship with the payment provider, Cash Paymaster Services. “GOVERNMENT IS TURNING THE TIDE ON CORRUPTION” President Ramaphosa says recent action at Eskom, is only the beginning. Delivering his State of the Nation Address (Sona) on Friday night, he said he will intervene decisively to stabilise and revitalise state-owned enterprises (SOEs). Ramaphosa says the government is turning the tide on corruption. Ramaphosa says the country’s state-owned enterprises are dragging down the economy and draining the fiscus. He says rooting out corruption at Eskom is only the start and steps against other SOEs are in the offing. He’s promised that from now on only people with experience, expertise and integrity will be appointed to boards “The government will take further measures to ensure that all SOEs fulfil their economic, as well as developmental mandate.” Ramaphosa says a review of funding models is also on the cards.