Former Springbok coach Peter de Villiers says that he had warned Allister Coetzee about SA Rugby setting him up for failure. JOHANNESBURG - SA Rugby confirmed on Friday that they have parted ways with Springbok coach Allister Coetzee with immediate effect. Coetzee had a tumultuous time as Springbok coach since his appointment in 2016. After starting with a 2-1 home series win against Ireland, Coetzee’s record as Bok coach took a downward spiral, after a record defeat to New Zealand and and a first defeat to Argentina in the Rugby Championship. Coetzee’s record in his two-year tenure was unsatisfactory after only 10 wins, 12 loses and 3 draws, including humiliating defeats to Italy, Wales, and a record 57-0 drubbing to the hands of the All Blacks in Albany in September 2017. Speaking to EWN Sport, former Springbok coach Peter de Villiers says that he had warned Coetzee about SA Rugby setting him up for failure. “He was forced out of his job, because people didn’t give him the support he needed so much to be successful. it happened to me and I told him that it would happen to him too.” De Villiers coached the Springboks between 2008 and 2011, and during that period, won a British and Irish Lions tour in 2009, a Tri Nations title in the same year, claimed three wins against the All Blacks, including a famous win in the much-vaunted Dunedin ground. De Villiers also says that when he was appointed as the Springbok coach, there were already contingency plans being put together in case he failed. “When I was appointed as coach, there was another coach on stand-by just in case I don’t make it, and they tried about four or five times to get rid of me in my four years as coach. I was a little bit more astute than Allister was, I did not sign my contract until there was a performance clause in it, and at the end it was the performance clause that kept me in my job for four years.” In a statement on Friday, SA Rugby CEO Jurie Roux said that they had to take into consideration the best interests of the Springbok team. “First and foremost, we had to assess what is in the best interests of the Springboks,” “We’d like to thank Allister for his passion and dedication to the Springbok cause and wish him every success in his next role.” Said Roux. The confirmation of the Springbok management set-up is due to be completed before the end of February, with Rassie Erasmus expected to take up the reigns as the new Springbok head coach.