Three of the five remaining English clubs left in the competition were in action over the two days, with Manchester City and Liverpool being the biggest winners. JOHANNESBURG - The Champions League returned this week with the round of 16 clashes getting underway on Tuesday and Wednesday. Three of the five remaining English clubs left in the competition were in action over the two days, with Manchester City and Liverpool being the biggest winners. Runaway Premier League leaders Man City romped to a 4-0 victory over Swiss champions Basel. The Citizens were in a rampant mood, scoring three goals in the first 30 minutes, before completing the rout early in the second. Ilkay Gundogan scored twice, while Bernado Silva and Sergio Aguero also got their names on the scoresheet as City showed their class to all but secure their place in the quarter-final stage. Liverpool, meanwhile, were at their counter-attacking best to put five past FC Porto at the Estadio de Dragao. Sadio Mane netted a hat-trick, while Mohammed Salah scored his 30th goal of the season as Porto suffered only their third loss in all competitions this season. The only English team to fail to claim victory were Tottenham Hotspur, who came back from 2-0 down to draw 2-2 with Italian giants Juventus. The Old Lady started the game on the front foot, netting twice in the opening 10 minutes through a brace from Gonzalo Higuain. Spurs then fought back in the second half as talisman Harry Kane and Christian Eriksen managed to score two valuable away goals for Mauricio Pochettino’s men. Real Madrid put their struggles in the league behind as the defending champions came from a goal down to beat PSG 3-1. Marcelo put in a brilliant performance down the left-hand side, while Cristiano Ronaldo grabbed a brace to ease the pressure on Zinedine Zidane. The round of 16 continues next week Tuesday with Bayern Munich hosting Besiktas and Chelsea taking on Barcelona in a repeat of the 2012 final. Wednesday sees Manchester United look to emulate their cross-town rivals when they take on Sevilla, while Roma travel to Shakhtar Donetsk.