The qualified teams are a mixture of National First Division clubs as well as teams from the PSL. JOHANNESBURG – The last set of fixtures in the Nedbank Cup Round of 32 will take place on Wednesday evening. So far, 12 clubs have successfully booked their spots in the round of 16. The draw will take place on Thursday, 15 February 2018 at 7.30 pm. The qualified teams are a mixture of National First Division clubs as well as teams from the PSL. Bloemfontein Celtic qualified after beating Supersport United 5-4 on Penalties after a 1-1 draw in regulation time. Amazulu beat the Mthatha Bucks 3-0 on penalties after a 2-2 draw AET. Maritzburg United & Chippa United are also part of the teams that qualified. Mamelodi Sundowns progressed after beating Cape Town All Stars 1-0 whilst Orlando Pirates went through at the expense of Ajax Cape Town. Kaizer Chiefs and Cape Town City progressed at the expense Golden Arrows and Wits respectively. Ubuntu Cape Town, Steenburg United, EC Bees, & Royal Eagles are teams from the National First Division who will be hoping to progress to the quarter-finals after the draw on Thursday. In fixtures taking place on Wednesday evening, Richards Bay will be taking on Bloemfontein Young Tigers at the Umhlathuze Sports Complex. Kickoff is at the 3.30 pm. At 6 pm, Free State Stars – who beat Baroka FC 2-0 in their last PSL match - take on Super Eagles at Goble Park. It’s an all-premiership match when the Royal Bafokeng Stadium plays host to Baroka FC and Platinum Stars. Platinum Stars will hope to end their five-game winless streak which included losses to Mamelodi Sundowns, Orlando Pirates and Cape Town City. At the same time, Stellenbosch host Highlands Park at the Athlone Stadium. Both teams go into the match off league victories. Highlands Park beat the Royal Eagles 4-0 in their previous league match whilst Stellenbosch beat Uthongathi FC 1-0 at the Princess Magogo Stadium. Kick off in both games is at 7.30 pm. Nedbank Cup Round of 16 Draw Procedure: All 16 clubs are placed in a pot without any seeding. The team drawn first is the home team, with the second team being the away club. The process is repeated until all fixtures are decided.