Kaizer Chiefs boss Steve Kompela says the club will always be bigger than him and that they have worked hard at implementing a club philosophy instead of his own. JOHANNESBURG- In the midst of a closely contested Absa Premier League race, Kaizer Chiefs boss Steve Komphela believes that the Glamour Boys are in the process of creating a club philosophy rather than an individual one. Komphela has come under fire for a lack of titles in the Naturena cabinet since he took over from current Bafana Bafana coach Stuart Baxter, two and a half seasons ago. Chiefs are currently sitting second on the PSL table on 34 points and are just four points adrift from leaders Mamelodi Sundowns with nine games to go. The Soweto Giants have kept their title hopes alive this past weekend with a crucial 1-0 win over Cape Town City at the FNB Stadium with their young striker Ryan Moon netting the winner early in the second half. Chiefs and Moon have been in fine form in 2018. They are yet to taste defeat this year in all competitions having played seven games, winning four and drawing three. Moon has netted five times in the last six games for Chiefs since the turn of the year. Although Komphela hasn’t delivered any trophies at the club as yet during his tenure, he has seen plenty of development. Eight players who are 23 and under have represented the first team this season with Moon being the most impressive of the lot. Komphela says the club will always be bigger than him and that they have worked hard at implementing a club philosophy instead of his own after the victory against Cape Town City. “It’s not about my philosophy, but the club’s philosophy. If you look at the Multi-choice Diski Challenge match we played earlier in the day where we won 4-2 against Platinum Stars, we had Nkosi Ngcobo and Given Thibedi playing in the midfield and that was a reflection of what we saw tonight against Cape Town City but at a more junior level. “At the moment Chiefs is a well-functioning machine, where we know that if anything happens with Willard Katsande, we can bring in Ngcobo or Thibedi in. That way we are guaranteed long-term success at the club. It is rare to find a situation in South Africa where the philosophy is about the club and not about the coach.” Komphela also likened the philosophy being created at Chiefs to that of La Liga giants Barcelona. “If you look at Barcelona, no matter if a coach comes and goes, the club will always produce the results.”