The 5-wicket victory, ensures that the Proteas remain unbeaten in the Pink Day occasion, with their sixth victory. JOHANNESBURG – The Proteas claimed a scintillating five wicket win in the rain affected fourth ODI against India at the Wanderers on Saturday for their first win of the six-match series. Aiden Markram’s men came into the encounter under enormous pressure having lost the first three ODI’s in emphatic fashion, and there was added pressure of their unbeaten record in the Pink Day ODI. Chasing a revised total of 202 for victory, because of a lengthy rain delay, the Proteas lost Markram for 22, when he was trapped leg before by Jasprit Bumrah. Amla and Duminy combined well to settle the innings, but the introduction of Kuldeep Yadav gave the Indians the breakthrough as Duminy shimmied down the wicket and missed a straight delivery to be trapped leg before for 10. AB de Villiers who was playing his first game of the series gave the innings impetus, with a breezy 26 before finding Rohit Sharma in the deep. The match winning partnership of 72 between David Miller and Heinrich Klaasen was the foundation in which Andile Phehlukwayo 23 of 5 balls could launch. The partnership didn’t come without it’s fair share of luck, as Miller was first dropped on 7, and then bowled by Chahal off a no ball. Miller and Klaasen capitalized on those reprieves, by peppering the boundary consistently. Phehlukwayo sealed the victory with a massive six. Earlier India posted 289/7 in their allotted 50 overs, that’s largely to Shikar Dhawan’s 13th ODI century in his 100th game. Dhawan was ably assisted by the ever consistent Virat Kohli who contributed 75 runs in their century stand together. Dhawan was eventually out for a brilliant 109. The Pink Day ODI is always synonymous with pieces of individual brilliance, which in the past de Villiers provided with his brilliant batting, but this time that accolade belonged to Markram who took a blinder of a catch to dismiss Hardik Pandya and shifted the momentum in the Proteas favour. The 5-wicket victory, ensures that the Proteas remain unbeaten in the Pink Day occasion, with their sixth victory. The two teams now travel to Port Elizabeth for the penultimate match on the eve of Valentines day.