Mamelodi Sundown’s mentor Pitso Mosimane says that his technical and fitness staff work around the clock to keep his players fit and fresh to be able to play in multiple competitions. JOHANNESBURG - Mamelodi Sundown’s mentor Pitso Mosimane says that his technical and fitness staff work around the clock to keep his players fit and fresh to be able to play in multiple competitions. The African Champions’ work load is a heavy one as they will be competing for Premier League, Nedbank Cup and Champions League honours in the coming months. Mosimane credits his players' fitness and ability to compete in all competitions to the near perfect planning that his technical staff do. “We have a good technical and fitness staff who manage the planning to make sure we can do three tournaments in seven days. They manage player fatigue and make sure the team is always fresh to play." Mosimane heaps praise on fitness trainer Kabelo Rangoaga for making sure that the players are always in good physical condition. “Our fitness trainer is the best and doesn’t get enough credit that he deserves for managing the players' fitness levels, but sometimes we as coaches overrule them, but they do a great job.” One of the fundamental aspects to Sundown’s success of the past few seasons has been their ability to seek help and outside expertise, especially in their fitness and technical department. The club has recently built a new technical center at their Chloorklop headquarters that has high quality training and recuperation facilities. They have also recently appointed former Sweden national coach Erik Hamren as their new technical director. “We are a club that isn't afraid to ask for help. We send our physical trainers to Real Madrid and Manchester City to go sit with the physical trainers from those clubs and see how they manage their players when they play in four competitions and ask questions like how to prioritise." “Sometimes, when you don’t know how to manage players' workloads and their fitness levels you start making excuses of travelling and playing a lot of games.” Sundowns are fresh off their 1-0 win over National First Division side Cape Town All Stars in the Nedbank Cup round of 32 at the Athlone Stadium on Friday, and now turn their attention to their league fixture against Free State Stars on 21 February.