The results, from this weekend, see Maties at the summit of the table on 14 points followed by Wits, who are four points behind. JOHANNESBURG - Round three of Varsity Rugby continued on Monday evening across various universities around the country with Tuks losing again, whilst Central University of Technology (CUT) and Madibaz had one of the games of the season. The CUT was part of, arguably, the game of the week coming back to beat Madibaz 38-37. Madibaz had a great start to the game scoring a 7-point try in the 20th minute. A strong second half performance saw CUT come from behind to take the lead eight minutes from time. CUT scored a try in the 77th minute, but the unconverted try was not enough to help them get past their opponents. Shimlas handed Wits their first defeat of the season; beating the boys from Johannesburg 44-32 at Xerox Shimla Park. Three tries in the early moments of the second half from Shimlas was enough for the Free State team to get out of reach. Nicolaas Naude was the standout performer for Shimlas, scoring two tries and kicking four conversions. Down in Cape Town, NWU edged out Ikeys 18 points to 15 at the UCT Stadium. It was a tight first half with the teams going into the break 5-3. Despite a converted try from Ikeys in the 51st minute, the decisive moment came in the 74th minute when Johan Retief scored a converted try to put NWU ahead. In the final game of the round, Maties handed Tuk their third defeat of the season beating the Pretoria outfit 24-16 at the Danie Craven Stadium. Tuks scored no points in the second half, whilst Maties scored a converted try and penalty to help them to a 12-point victory. The results, from this weekend, see Maties at the summit of the table on 14 points followed by Wits, who are four points behind. IKeys and Shimlas are tied on nine points in third and fourth place respectively. Tuks sits at the bottom of the log after losing all three games so far. In fixtures taking place on 19 February, Madibaz host Wits at the NMU Stadium in the early televised game. Kick-off is at 4.45 pm. At 6.30 pm, Maties take on CUT whilst Shimlas tackle Ikeys at the same time. The late televised game, at 7.00 pm, sees NWU host the University of Johannesburg, who had a bye in round three. Tuks, who are yet to win a game this season have a bye this week. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)