Ajax Cape Town gained a valuable three points when they beat Orlando Pirates 3-0 at the Cape Town Stadium on Wednesday night. JOHANNESBURG - Ajax Cape Town gained a valuable three points when they beat Orlando Pirates 3-0 at the Cape Town Stadium on Wednesday night. The match was overshadowed with controversy before kick-off, with Ajax striker Tendai Ndoro’s eligibility to represent the club put into question. Ndoro has signed for three clubs this season alone, having represented Orlando Pirates at the beginning of the season before being sold to Al-Faisaly of Saudi Arabia prior to the close of the previous transfer window. The Zimbabwean striker then joined Ajax during the January transfer window, making the Urban Warriors his third club of the season. Fifa rules state that a player may sign for three clubs within one season but can only don the jersey of two of those clubs. Earlier in the day, however, the Premier Soccer League sent out a statement that said that Ndoro could feature against his former employers in the game in Cape Town. That hasn’t gone down well with Pirates, who are believed to have lodged a formal complaint against Ajax Cape Town. The Urban Warriors, though, put that drama behind them as captain Mosa Lebusa headed the home side into the lead just 12 minutes into the game. Debutant Yannick Zakri, who joined Ajax during the week from Mamelodi Sundowns, doubled the lead through a brilliant counter-attacking move that involved Ndoro assisting Zakri, who tucked his shot neatly past Jackson Mabokgwane to take Ajax 2-0 up before half-time. The Ivorian Zakri and Ndoro were at it again in the second stanza, as they linked up again for Zakri’s second of the night. Another recent addition to the Cape Town outfit, Siyanda Zwane went of a long run down the touch line before laying the ball off to Ndoro, whose well weighted pass found the path of Zakri and he made no mistake by putting the ball in the back of the net to close off the match in emphatic style. It is yet to be seen whether Ajax will keep the points they claimed from the win against Pirates and Platinum Stars, where Ndoro featured in both games. In the other result from the night, Eric Tinkler and SuperSport United’s horrid run of form continued, when they went down 1-0 to Amazulu with Ovidy Kururu scoring the winner for Usuthu.