ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule says the decision to recall Jacob Zuma was not because of the president’s legal challenges. JOHANNESBURG - President Jacob Zuma is not being recalled because he has done anything wrong. That’s according to African National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General Ace Magashule who has briefed the media on the outcomes of a 13-hour national executive committee (NEC) meeting which ended in the early hours of Tuesday morning. Magashule says the decision to recall was not because of Zuma’s legal challenges. “We [the organisation] did not take this decision because Comrade Zuma has done anything wrong. We’re a political organisation… and still a liberation movement.” WATCH: ANC NEC recalls President Zuma  The ANC Parliamentary caucus will be briefed on Wednesday. Zuma was informed of the decision on Tuesday morning and Magashule says he will respond on Wednesday, although he was not given a deadline. “There’s a resolution that officials must keep interacting with the president. The ANC, for now, has not put any motions of no confidence.” WATCH: #ZumaExit: ANC on the motion of no confidence  The ANC says it’s certain that Zuma will respond on Wednesday, saying that they haven’t been dealing with a president who is “defiant”. But it’s unclear if Zuma will step down. At the same time, Magashule says they’ve given Zuma time and space to prepare his response. Magashule said issues of economic growth need to be addressed among other things. He also says that by recalling Zuma, the party is taking action. POSSIBLE ANC, EFF NO CONFIDENCE MOTION Political analyst Moeletsi Mbeki is warning Zuma could well defy the ANC and not resign. He says Zuma's desire to stay on for the next three to six months could lead to his continued stay. Mbeki says that might see the party joining in on the EFF's motion of no confidence in the president in an effort to oust him- with international investors watching closely. “Zuma has told them that he won’t resign, he needs three to six months so I guess he will repeat that then the ANC will presumably go to the EFF and ask to partner with the EFF in a motion of no confidence.”<u1:p></u1:p> WHY IS ZUMA BEING RECALLED? President Zuma is expected to either accept defeat and resign…. or defy the ANC. The ANC doesn’t seem to have a clear answer on why it decided to recall President Zuma. Magashule was asked countless times what reasons the party have to the president for his recall? “The reasons for the recall was that we engaged and we’re looking forward to an amicable solution.” Magashule then made this shocking statement. “President Zuma has not been found guilty by any court of law. When we took these decisions, we didn’t do so because President Zuma has done anything wrong.” So, if the president hasn’t done anything wrong, why is he being recalled? Magashule says there will be further talks between Zuma and the top officials, raising confusion that the party has created a room for engagements with the president, despite saying it’s taken a final decision to recall him. “We agreed that there should be continuing interaction between officials of the ANC and President Zuma.” Magashule says they haven’t decided whether to charge Zuma if he defies the party and doesn’t accept the recall. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)