Tau’s mentor at Sundowns attributes his skill to individual brilliance and hard work. JOHANNESBURG - Mamelodi Sundowns mentor Pitso Mosimane says talisman attacker Percy Tau is ready for Europe’s top 5 football leagues. Mosimane speaks of Tau on the back of his brilliant goal assist for Zimbabwean man, Khama Billiat in Sundowns’s crucial 1-0 win over Cape Town City in the Mother City last week Friday. Tau received the ball down the left-hand touchline and under pressure from two City defenders. The 24-year-old then used his pace and strength to outstrip the defenders, before cleverly scooping the ball into the path of Billiat who finished on the volley. That brilliant assist was Tau’s tenth of the season together with seven goals and has received plenty of praise from players and coaches alike. Tau’s mentor at Sundowns attributes his skill to individual brilliance and hard work. “That piece of skill he showed against Cape Town City isn’t something we coach here at Sundowns, we can’t claim that, that is Percy’s individual brilliance. “You guys come here every time and you see who is that last person to leave the training pitch, its Percy, he always wants to do something with the ball, he loves football.” Mosimane also compared Tau’s football ability to that of former Kaizer Chiefs midfielder Jabu Mahlangu who then went by the name Jabu Pule. “He reminds me of Jabu Pule the way that he loves the game.” The Sundowns boss gave his young attacker the biggest endorsement when he says he believes Tau is ready to play in Europe’s top five leagues. “The quality says he is ready, the mentality and ability say he is ready, and the best place for Percy is the top 5 leagues in Europe.” Mosimane broke down what is required for Tau to reach those leagues. “He needs to be the leading player at Bafana Bafana, he needs to score goals there, he needs to win the Champions League for us again, and he also needs to win the Nedbank Cup for us too, and that will be his passport to those leagues.” Mamelodi Sundowns kick off their round of 32 Nedbank Cup with a clash against Cape Town All Stars at the Athlone Stadium in Cape Town on Friday night.