Komphela's comments come after Chiefs claimed a narrow 1-0 victory over Cape Town City in their PSL clash on Saturday, with Ryan Moon netting the winner just after half-time. JOHANNESBURG - Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela says there are still many matches to play in the season and there is optimism and hope that Mamelodi Sundowns can be caught in the title race. “We are looking forward to pushing and this has given a great confidence boost. It gives an indication as well that we would love to win the championship, but we still need to dig deep and fight for it. We have to just focus on one game at a time because anybody who slips will be unfortunate.” Komphela's comments come after Chiefs claimed a narrow 1-0 victory over Cape Town City in their PSL clash on Saturday, with Ryan Moon netting the winner just after half-time. The hard-fought victory takes Komphela’s men up to second on the log, just four points behind leaders Mamelodi Sundowns, who have a game in hand. Benni McCarthy’s side find themselves in sixth place, seven points behind the Brazilians. McCarthy says that both teams must be commended for the type of football that was played but admits he was let down by his chargers. “I’m a little bit disappointed in my team because I think we went into the game with a decent game plan, but I think we let the occasion beat us. Too many players just didn’t step up and deliver what they were supposed to and we were second best from the off.” Bidvest Wits, meanwhile continue to climb steadily up the table after they beat Golden Arrows 2-1 at the Princess Magogo Stadium. Two goals in the first half by Gabadinho Mhango and Lehlohonolo Majoro were enough to seal the win for Gavin Hunt’s chargers. Despite a goal fifteen minutes from time by Limbikani Mzava, Arrows weren’t able to find the equaliser and find themselves dangerously close to the drop zone in thirteenth place. On Friday, Maritzburg United earned bragging rights in the KwaZulu-Natal derby after running out 2-0 winners against AmaZulu. The win moves The Team of Choice up two places to fourth on the log, while Usuthu drop one spot to ninth. Match week 21 continues tomorrow night when Platinum Stars welcome SuperSport United to the Royal Bafokeng Stadium at 19:30.