Shortly after a midday wedding ceremony, the couple will make their first public appearance as husband and wife in a roughly two mile carriage procession. LONDON – Britain’s Prince Harry and his fiancee Meghan Markle will celebrate their wedding day with members of the public by taking a carriage ride through the English town of Windsor, the prince’s office at Kensington Palace said on Monday. Queen Elizabeth’s grandson, fifth-in-line to the throne, and Markle, who stars in the US TV legal drama Suits, announced their engagement last year and their marriage is to take place on 19 May in St George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle. Shortly after a midday wedding ceremony, the couple will make their first public appearance as husband and wife in a roughly two mile carriage procession. “They hope this short journey will provide an opportunity for more people to come together around Windsor and to enjoy the atmosphere of this special day,” Kensington Palace said in a statement, setting out new details of the wedding day. The route will finish with a ride up the long, broad 17th century parkland avenue that leads to Windsor Castle, home of British kings and queens for almost 1,000 years. Their exchange of wedding vows will be officiated by Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby, the spiritual leader of the Anglican Communion. The wedding service itself will be conducted by Dean of Windsor, David Conner. The wedding is likely to attract huge attention around the world, as did the marriage of Harry’s elder brother William to Kate Middleton in 2011, which was watched by an estimated two billion people. Kensington palace said Harry and Markle would join guests at a reception inside Windsor Castle after the procession. Harry’s father, Prince Charles, would later host an evening reception for close friends and family. Markle, who is a divorcee, met Harry in July 2016 after they were introduced through a mutual friend, with both knowing little about the other. After just two dates, the couple decided to go on holiday together to Botswana.