Cape Town City’s new striker Matthew Rusike scored the only goal of the game in the second minute of the round of 32 clash with Bidvest Wits, to dump the defending league champions out of the Nedbank Cup. JOHANNESBURG - Cape Town City’s new striker Matthew Rusike scored the only goal of the game in the second minute of the round of 32 clash with Bidvest Wits, to dump the defending league champions out of the Nedbank Cup. In torrential rain at the Wits Stadium, the visiting Cape Town side got off to a flyer after Rusike out-jumped the Wits defenders and headed the ball past the diving Darren Keet in goal from a beautiful cross from veteran Teko Modise, to open the scoring in the second minute of the game. Rusike, who was recently signed by Cape Town City from Tunisian side Club Africain on the January transfer deadline day, was making his full City debut at the Wits Stadium. Wits dominated the game and created plenty of chances to score but as is the tale of their season, they just couldn’t find the back of the net. Sfiso Myeni missed a glorious opportunity to draw level a minute after Rusike’s goal, when James Keene found him in the box, but he sent his shot sailing over the cross bar. Vincent Pule’s curling free-kick from just outside the box was tipped over the bar by Shoaib Walters, in a frenetic opening 10 minutes of the game, despite the wet conditions. Wits pressed all night as City kept on going deeper and deeper into their own half. Bongani Khumalo also had a great chance to equalize but his close-range shot was cleared by Modise on the goal line. The defeat was Wits’ fourth of the season at the hands of City, the most defeats by a team against the same opposition in the PSL era. City now progress to the next round of Nedbank Cup action. In the other results from Nedbank Cup action from Wednesday night, Amazulu needed penalties to move past Umthatha Bucks after the two sides were deadlocked at 2-2 at the end of extra time, Amazulu won the shootout 3-0, while the shock of the night came when NFD side Ubuntu Cape Town beat PSL side Polokwane City 3-2 to advance to the next round.