Bill Haas was scheduled to play in the Genesis Open at the Riviera Country Club in Pacific Palisades that begins Thursday, but will withdraw to recover. NEW YORK - United States professional golfer Bill Haas escaped serious injury in a fatal three-car collision in Los Angeles on Tuesday that also involved actor Luke Wilson, but will drop out of a tournament as a result, his manager and local officials said on Wednesday. Haas, a six-time PGA Tour winner, was scheduled to play in the Genesis Open at the Riviera Country Club in Pacific Palisades that begins Thursday, but will withdraw to recover at his home in Greenville, South Carolina, his manager said. “While Bill escaped serious injuries and has been released from the hospital, he is understandably shaken up and - more importantly - his deepest condolences go out to the host family during this tragic and difficult time,” manager Allen Hobbs, of Players Group Management, said in a statement. The accident, which killed one person, occurred at about 6:30 pm local time on Tuesday on a suburban road in the upscale Pacific Palisades section of Los Angeles, the Los Angeles Fire Department said. Three cars and a utility pole were involved in the crash, Los Angeles police said, adding that the 71-year-old male driver of one of the cars was killed. The man was a member of a family with whom Haas and his family were staying for the Genesis Open, Hobbs said. A police spokesman said Wilson was in one of the cars but had no information on his condition. Wilson, whose movies include “The Royal Tenenbaums,” is the brother of fellow actors Owen and Andrew Wilson. Haas, who reached a career-high 12th in the world golf rankings in 2012, is currently ranked 67th. He joined the PGA Tour in 2006 and has earned six victories, most recently at the Humana Challenge in La Quinta, California, in 2015. He enjoyed his best finish at a major tournament when he earned a share of fifth place at the US Open in 2017. Haas, whose father is a nine-time PGA Tour winner, represented the United States three times at the Presidents Cup, a biennial competition between the US and an international team of players from the rest of the world excluding Europe.