It's been confirmed that Thabang Mosiako was attacked at an off-campus  rag party last weekend. JOHANNESBURG - The North West University (NWU) and police are investigating a possible racist attack on long-distance runner Thabang Mosiako at a university event. It's been confirmed that Mosiako was attacked at an off-campus  rag party last weekend. Mosiako was allegedly attacked by 10 white students. The university says it can't confirm if any of its students were involved. Mosiako is scheduled to jet off to Algeria for the African Championships  in March. NWU spokesperson Louis Jacobs says: “As soon as we got to know about the information, we already gave it to out protection services on campus for the sake of commencing their own investigation in conjunction with the police, to determine whether the students are from the North West University.” Mosiake, a 5000m athletics champion, is a student at Boston College and a Nedbank runner. The Potchefstroom Herald is reporting  his two friends, Rantso Mokopane and Sandy Londt, were also attacked and suffered minor injuries. Mokopane told the Potchefstroom Herald that the attackers are university students. He explained the incident started at a café after the attackers swore at a cashier. “I intervened and asked them to stop swearing at the lady. When I went outside, the group had multiplied and there were about ten rugby-bodied men who started attacking us,” he is quoted as saying. He added the attackers repeatedly bashed Mosiake’s head. “There were a lot of them and we did not stand a chance. The two of us fled and the attackers all started kicking Mosiako on the head and body while he was on the ground. I saw one taking his head and repeatedly bashing it against the ground. When they saw the police were coming, they fled, leaving the unconscious athlete on the ground. He was transported to the hospital.” Mokopane took to Facebook after the incident and said Mosiake had sustained severe injuries. "4th time being attacked in and around the NWU Campus and this time around my training partner severely injured and resulting in a head trauma which may lead to lifelong seizures. I always refrain from racial issues, but on all those 4 attacks it has always been white men engulfing and injuring non-whites without cause,…..it saddens me that even police and protection services fail to protect where needed…#CryOur Beloved_Country (sic)." (Edited by Shimoney Regter)