Protesters are demonstrating against the surging petrol price outside National Treasury offices in Pretoria. JOHANNESBURG - An organisation called “The Freedom Movement” has called on the government to drop the fuel price by R1 and to reduce the fuel levy. Protesters are demonstrating against the surging petrol price outside National Treasury offices in Pretoria. The Freedom Movement, comprised of the Democratic Alliance, Freedom Front Plus, Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse and other organisations, is addressing a crowd of about 200 people outside National Treasury’s offices in the capital. WATCH: Movement calls for R1 fuel price decrease or new government  Noel Dibakwane from the Organisation for Democracy and Freedom has warned that if the government doesn’t hear their cry, they will lose power. “The same [Cyril] Ramaphosa who says we must always walk whenever we encounter problems, calling it health walks; If you do not listen to these people, come 2019 you will continue to walk, and you will be called Johnnie Walker.” The movement has accused President Ramaphosa of failing to act against the increases in value-added tax, fuel and corruption at parastatals. A memorandum with a list of demands has been handed to Treasury officials and they’ve been given 14 days to respond.  ‘ANC GOVERNMENT HAS GROWN DEAF TO CRIES OF SOUTH AFRICANS’ Outa says if the government drops the fuel levy they will be forced to save money by reducing wasteful expenditure and becoming more efficient. The Department of Energy has announced that the fuel price is set to rise by 1 cents a litre and diesel will cost 4 c/l less from midnight. Outa’s Ben Theron says the African National Congress government has grown deaf to the cries and suffering of South Africans. “President and minister listen to your people… they’re asking for an R1 reduction in the fuel levy.”  He’s drawn a direct link between corruption and the increasing fuel price. “Go and fetch our money in Dubai that was stolen from Eskom, Transnet, Prasa… all those state-owned organisations are R1 billion and subsidise the fuel levy as it’s today.” The group is calling for an R1 per litre drop in the fuel levy as well as the urgent tabling of affairs at the Road Accident Fund in Parliament.  (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)