The event is organised by the Nelson Mandela Foundation to honour Madiba, who would’ve turned 100 years old on Wednesday, 18 July. JOHANNESBURG - World leaders will on Tuesday descend on Johannesburg, where former US President Barack Obama will deliver the keynote address at the special 16th Nelson Mandela Annual Lecture. Obama will be joined by current and former world leaders in paying tribute to the struggle icon in a year marking his centenary. Security is expected to be tight at the Wanderers Stadium in Illovo ahead of the highly anticipated lecture. The event is organised by the Nelson Mandela Foundation to honour Madiba, who would’ve turned 100-years-old on Wednesday, 18 July. This is Obama’s first trip to South Africa since his departure from the White House. The official programme is set to get underway at around noon, with Obama being given 45 minutes at the podium for a special address. Among the list of national and international dignitaries is former UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon, former Botswana President Ian Khama, Swaziland’s King Mswati III, Botswana's President Mokgweetsi Masisi and former Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. Former Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi will also be among those in attendance. President Cyril Ramaphosa, former President Kgalema Motlanthe and Nelson Mandela’s Widow, Graça Machel, will all be present to welcome Obama. Some of Mandela’s children and grandchildren are also due to attend. Ramaphosa is expected to address the gathering briefly before inviting Obama to deliver his speech. DEFEND DEMOCRACY Obama’s address is seen, by those close to him, as his most important public address since leaving office in 2017. The main theme of his address is “Renewing the Mandela Legacy and Promoting Active Citizenship in a Changing World”. He will use his address to call on young people to defend democracy. Obama delivered the eulogy at the former president’s memorial in 2013, where he said Madiba was the greatest liberator of the 20th century. At the time, he said: “Mandela taught us the power of logic and reason”. Obama is expected to take the podium before 3pm.  (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)