Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi says the ANC-led government has failed to uphold its promise to clearly define the role of traditional leaders in the constitution. ULUNDI - As the land imbizo called by Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini continues in Ulundi, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi says they want to know why the government continues to treat traditional leaders like “morons”. On Wednesday, the Zulu nation is commemorating the torching of King Cetshwayo’s palace by British forces in 1879. Buthelezi says Wednesday’s imbizo was deliberately chosen to coincide with this day because a new threat has arisen.  He says the African National Congress-led government has failed to uphold its promise to clearly define the role of traditional leaders in the constitution. “The Constitution recognises the existence of traditional leadership but not its form or shape. What does it mean? They have not done that.” VEILED THREAT TO POLITICIANS King Zwelithini appears to have taken a swipe at the ANC, saying it’s time the Zulu nation asks itself how much longer it will tolerate being abused by political parties. He has been addressing a land imbizo called to discuss the possible transfer of land under the Ingonyama Trust to the state. Emotions have been running high after a high-level panel called for the Ingonyama Trust Act of 1994 to be repealed and for the three million hectares under it to be transferred to the state. King Zwelithini has told his subjects that as long as he is alive their land will not be taken away by anyone because God will give him the strength to wage any battle. He’s issued a veiled threat to politicians and their organisations not to think they are gods because the Zulu nation will rise if pushed into a corner. King Zwelithini asked the audience to question how long they can continue to be explored by political parties who only want their vote but do nothing for them. The Zulu king has called on all his sons and daughters, wherever they are, to never forget that they are Zulu first at all times.  Earlier, the KwaZulu-Natal House of Traditional Leaders said former president Kgalema Motlanthe “swore at the Zulu nation” when he referred to the Amakhosi as “village tinpot dictators”. Motlanthe led a high-level panel which found inconsistencies in the way government implemented its own land policies and that the act was not in line with the Constitution. At the imbizo, there has been a call for all those who arrived as indentured workers to leave the province and that the “Natal” part in the naming of KwaZulu-Natal be dropped, to remind those who aren’t from the province that they are visitors to this land.  KING ZWELITHINI: KZN THE GATEWAY TO AFRICA King Zwelithini has called on his subjects to think deeply about protecting the land under the Ingonyama Trust, he’s warned that “politicians must just back off. He says his nation is not weak and has over the centuries won many battles over land because they understood the importance of land and that KZN is the gateway to Africa. King Zwelithini says they are not calling for a war but the Zulu nation must not be provoked. He has outlined the history of amaZulu, saying this is not the first time they have had to defend themselves against opportunists who try to take what rightfully belongs to them.  At the same time, King Zwelithini says God will give him the strength to defeat the enemy, which he says is opportunistically trying to take the land under the Ingonyama Trust. He says he’s a praying man who advocates for peace, but for as long as he lives there’s no one who will take the land of the Zulu nation. He has, however, given a stern caution that people must not misinterpret his respect for peace as him being stupid. The Zulu king adds that if he were that way inclined there could be a war. The Zulu king has also slammed Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema, describing him as a young disrespectful boy and he’s warned politicians not to think they’re gods.   (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)