Two of the four semi-finalists will be decided on Friday evening when Brazil take Belgium and Uruguay take on France. Two of the four semi-finalists will be decided on Friday evening when Brazil take Belgium and Uruguay take on France. Feature Match: Brazil v Belgium Brazil Key players Neymar (Winger)Despite being the subject of social media ridicule, Neymar's performance has improved since Brazil's 1-1 draw with Switzerland in the opening match of the World Cup. Against Mexico in the knockout stages, Neymar scored and assisted to help Brazil reach the final 8. He'll be up against a strong defense but will need another brilliant performance to help the Brazilians get passed Vincent Kompany's defense. Willian (Midfielder) Willian is a brilliant playmaker whether he starts or comes off the bench. The Chelsea midfielder was instrumental in a number of attacks against Mexico. His quick passing from the turnover of possession gives Brazil an extra element to their play. Belgium Key Players Eden Hazard (Midfielder)Eden Hazard has been the playmaker for Belgium in numerous occasion during the World Cup. His shot which hit the upright was the catalyst to start the comeback against Japan. His key passes, and similar style of play to Willian, will be an important part to help Romelu Lukaku add more to his goal tally. Romelu Lukaku (Striker)The Manchester United man is one of many English Premier League players on the field and will be hoping to prove his worth against a big team in this World Cup. He's been criticised in league football for not performing against the top teams. A brilliant performance against Brazil will prove the doubters wrong. Given his scoring record so far, he may be able to do so with ease. Ahmed's Prediction: Brazil 2-1 Belgium URUGUAY V FRANCE MATCH PREVIEW Uruguay have played the better football so far but will know that form doesn't count for much in cup competitions. With Edinson Cavani coming off a brilliant performance - and an unfortunate substitution - against Portugal, the South Americans will feel confident from an attacking point of view. From an attacking perspective, France have no shortage of World class players. It will have to be an attacking performance similar to their previous encounter with Argentina. Defensively, the French will have to do a lot more especially against a Uruguay team that has been tight at the back. Uruguay 1-0 France