Speaking to EWN Sport, Smith says the ICC needed to show leadership as the custodians of international Cricket. JOHANNESBURG - Former Proteas Captain Graeme Smith  says the International Cricket Council (ICC) needed to enforce tougher ball tampering sanctions following the scandal that rocked Australian and world cricket in Cape Town in March this year. Speaking to EWN Sport, Smith says the ICC needed to show leadership as the custodians of international Cricket. “I think the ICC needed to show leadership as the leaders of the sport in the world. What we saw from Australia and the bans those guys got were certainly not strong enough and the ICC needed to review those sanctions and now we have harsher sanctions.” Earlier in the week, the ICC announced new alterations to their code of conduct that sees various disciplinary standards being put in place. The level of sanctions for attempting to change the condition of a cricket ball increases from a level 2 to 3 which is equivalent to a six Test match or 12 ODI ban if found guilty by an ICC Match Referee. Initially, the level 2 sanction only meant that a player could be banned for one Test or ODI. Australia captain Steve Smith was banned for a Test match when he was found guilty of ball tampering in the third Test match against South Africa in Cape Town but Cricket Australia decided to ban the trio of Smith, Vice-Captain David Warner and opening batsman Camron Bancroft for 12 and nine months respectively. Smith also went on to say that the new sanctions will hopefully make cricketers think twice about their actions. “I think the new sanctions create an opportunity for guys to really think twice about doing things like that because it can impact their careers. A lot of lessons have been learned from what happened in Cape Town.” Recently Sri Lanka captain Dinesh Chandimal was also found guilty of attempting to alter the condition of the ball in a Test match against the West Indies and banned for the final Test of that series.