Despite a slow start to the tournament, France grew into a fierce side flexing their muscle in their 4-3 win over Argentina. Belgium, meanwhile, have been brilliant since day one. The first semi-final of the 2018 FIFA World Cup takes place on Tuesday night when France take on Belgium. Despite a slow start to the tournament, France grew into a fierce side flexing their muscle in their 4-3 win over Argentina in the knockout stages. Belgium, meanwhile, have been brilliant since day one. They have scored the most amount of goals so far, with Romelu Lukaku leading the line exceptionally well. FRANCE V BELGIUM France key player Antoinne Griezmann (Forward) Antoinne Griezmann has been, arguably, one of the players of the tournament so far having already scored three goals and assisting one. The 27-year old Atletico Madrid star has been clinical from set pieces as well; assisting Raphael Varane’s opener against Uruguay in the quarter finals. It was to be an even luckier day from Griezmann as he found himself on the scoresheet following a goalkeeping error from, Uruguay’s, Fernando Muslera. His ability to hold on to the ball, make key passes – long and short – complements his hunger to shoot from distance and lay the ball off to fellow midfielders. Axel Witsel and Marouane Fellaini will have their hands full – especially with Paul Pogba and Ngolo Kante in midfield. Paul Pogba (midfielder) Similar to his team, Paul Pogba has improved significantly since the start of the tournament. In his last outing, Pogba completed 75 passes, second to teammate Benjamin Pavard. The Manchester United midfielder put in a decent defensive shift as well, clearing danger from his 18-yard area five times throughout the quarter-final encounter against Uruguay. Pogba will need to be wary of losing the ball, he lost possession six times against Uruguay – the most for France. Belgium key players Romelu Lukaku (Striker) Romelu Lukaku has scored four goals so far and will be hoping to add to his scoring tally. The 25-year old striker’s work rate has been commendable – to say the least. His strength will be an important factor in Belgium’s attack. Considering the run he made leading up to Kevin de Bruyne’s goal against Brazil, it will be a huge warning for Ngolo Kante, Raphael Varane, Samuel Umtiti and Hugo Lloris. Eden Hazard (Midfielder) His accurate passing will be a huge threat to France’s defence. Having completed almost 80% of his passes during the World Cup, Eden Hazard poses a threat beyond his darting runs at defences with the ball at his feet. His ability to hold the ball up, make late runs into the box, finishing and carry out precise through balls gives the Red Devils confidence heading into a semi-final which could be a final by itself – given the quality on the field. Ahmed Kajee’s prediction: France 2-1 Belgium