Zanu-PF and MDC Alliance leaders are expected to address thousands of supporters already gathered at their respective gatherings. HARARE - As Zimbabweans prepare to cast their ballots on Monday, the country’s two biggest political parties are holding big rallies in Harare to convince the citizens to vote for them. Zanu-PF and MDC Alliance leaders are expected to address thousands of supporters already gathered at their respective gatherings. Zimbabweans will vote on Monday for the first time since independence without ousted former president Robert Mugabe. Thousands of MDC Alliance supporters clad in their red regalia are waiting for the party’s leader Nelson Chamisa to arrive on Saturday afternoon. They continue to sing songs praising the 40-year-old leader and denouncing his rival, incumbent president Emmerson Mnangagwa.   Chamisa is expected to remind Zimbabweans of his promises, should he be elected to the highest office in the land. One of his supporters has told Eyewitness News she decided she will vote for Chamisa because she is simply tired of Zanu-PF as citizens have been struggling under its rule. “Since 1999 up until now, we’re are still in struggle [sic]. We will win, but they don’t appreciate our winning.” Many are waiting to hear if Chamisa will repeat his criticism of the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) and warnings that he will not accept defeat. Supporters have made it clear if he doesn’t win, they will take to the streets. A DEMOCRATIC ENVIRONMENT At the same time, the country's president Emmerson Mnangagwa says his party has created a democratic environment, which has made it possible for a record number of parties to take part in this year’s national elections. Mnangagwa concluded his address to thousands of supporters bussed in from all over the country to witness the Zanu-PF’s final rally at the national sports stadium this afternoon. He says politicians have campaigned across the country, without threats of violence and intimidation, for the first time in many years. 