The Lions scrum had been dominant the whole afternoon over a very young Bulls pack. JOHANNESBURG - The Lions beat the Bulls 38-12 at Emirates Airline Park on Saturday to book themselves a home quarterfinal next weekend. The Lions were looking for a victory against a Bulls side that has had a lacklustre season, to book themselves a home quarterfinal and top the South African conference. With a plethora of late changes to the side, the Bulls didn’t look disjointed at all early as the combination of Manie Libbok and Warrick Gelant at 10 and 12 caused problems for the Lions early on. Libbok got the visitors' first try when he cut the Lions defence open and sprinted the length of the field to score under the sticks. Libbok converted his own try for an early 7-0 lead for the Bulls. The Bulls didn’t take long to extend their lead as Springbok centre Jesse Kriel capitalised on a turnover ball to score in the corner. Libbok missed the ensuing conversion. But the home side settled well and regained possession of the ball. Ruan Combrinck hit back for the Lions' first score of the game. Elton Jantjies converted and the Lions were back within seven points. Malcolm Marx levelled the scores when he burrowed his way of the line but the returning Courtnall Skosan made sure that the Lions went into the half-time break with a 19-12 lead. The early stages of the second stanza were frenetic but error-ridden as both sides tried to be enterprising. The Lions scrum had been dominant the whole afternoon over a very young Bulls pack and were rewarded with a penalty try. The home side stretched their lead once again through Combrinck’s second try of the afternoon. John Mitchell’s men were denied a try in the late stages of the game as the TMO adjudged that Franco Mostert was taken out in back play, meaning winger Travis Ishmael’s name was scrapped off the try scorers' list. Aphiwe Dyantyi polished off the Lions performance with a try after the full-time hooter to wrap up a convincing 38-12 victory.