President Ramaphosa met the deadline to respond to Moyane’s demands on Friday but did not accede to them. JOHANNESBURG - Suspended Sars commissioner Tom Moyane's legal team says they're satisfied with the response by President Cyril Ramaphosa after they demanded a halt to the two inquiries Moyane is at the centre of. Ramaphosa met the deadline to respond to Moyane’s demands on Friday but did not accede to them. The president said he would wait until the chair of Moyane’s disciplinary inquiry advocate Azhar Bham rules on whether it’s fair for him to face two probes at the same time. Moyane’s lawyer Eric Mabuza says they're happy with the president's stance on the matter and will not be going to court in the interim. “The letter that we had sent the president was very specific. The demands we had put were very specific. Had the president not complied with the demands, we’d surely have gone to court. So to put it in colloquial terms we would say the president blinked.” WATCH: 'The president blinked at our demands'  Mabuza says Ramaphosa has conceded the objections they raised on the two inquiries are reasonable. But a closer look at the letter Ramaphosa wrote to him on Friday does not indicate this. The president only says he will wait until advocate Bham rules on an objection Moyane made to the disciplinary inquiry, before making his own decision. Last week, chairperson of the Sars inquiry judge Robert Nugent rejected Moyane’s demands that the inquiry be halted after the suspended Sars boss claimed it was unfair and biased. Ramaphosa only says he will respond to the demands once he considers both views. Moyane has been charged with mishandling a Financial Intelligence Center report, making unauthorised bonus payments, misleading Parliament and instructing a Sars employee not to cooperate with a KPMG investigation. The embattled tax boss has been accused of, among other things, breaking the law, violating the Sars code of conduct and failing to fulfill his constitutional obligations. WATCH: Moyane briefs media on his term of office  (Edited by Shimoney Regter)