Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga and national spokesperson Refiloe Ntsekhe are among those gunning for the position in Gauteng. JOHANNESBURG - The Democratic Alliance (DA) has announced finalists for its premiership candidates. Gauteng received the most applicants, followed by the Western Cape. Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga and national spokesperson Refiloe Ntsekhe are among those gunning for the position in Gauteng. The DA says only people dedicated to its democratic project will be named as preferred premier candidates. The party says the selection process is rigorous to ensure that the pool from which premier candidates, Members of Parliament and provincial legislatures are selected is extensive. Federal Council chairperson James Selfe says the party received a total of 31 applications for premier candidates across the country.  He says these nominees will appear before selection panels in their respective provinces before a candidate is selected from the process. “I think the process we have agreed to is so rigorous that the voters can trust that whoever is selected will be able to do the job and do it competently.” Gauteng and the Western Cape received nine and seven applications respectively. Bonginkosi Madikizela is among the hopefuls in the Western Cape. The Eastern Cape only received one applicant, namely Mzwenqaba Bhanga. Selfe says his party prides itself on what he calls a competitive process, which he says will choose candidates who will take the party's offer to the voters and represent their interests. Premier candidates are as follows: Western Cape Fazloodien Abrahams Bonginkosi Success Madikizela David Maynier Kelly Baloyi Jacobus MacFarlane Alan Winde Micheal Mack Gauteng Stanford Makashule Gana Wendy Alexander Sandy Kgaogelo (Khathutshelo) Mbuvha Rachel Katleo Mathebe Ghaleb Cachalia Johannes Page Karabo Grace Tledima Refiloe Ntsekhe Solly Tshepiso Msimanga North West Sandy Kgaogelo (Khathutshelo) Mbuvha Tutu Faleni Thabo Selepe Patrick Sesana Karabo Grace Tledima KwaZulu-Natal Zwakele Maxwell Mncwango Zoe Moore Northern Cape Andrew Louw Limpopo Sandy Kgaogelo (Khathutshelo) Mbuvha Tshedza Tshivhasa Sikhwari Jacobus Frederik Smalle Rembuluwani Thelma Marole Free State Coreen Malherbe Semakaleng Patricia Kopane Eastern Cape Mzwenqaba Bhanga (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)