The final matches of the knockout stages take place on Tuesday evening. JOHANNESBURG - The final matches of the knockout stages take place on Tuesday evening. England and Colombia star in the feature match with Switzerland taking on Sweden in the other match. ENGLAND V COLOMBIA England key players: Harry Kane (Striker) Harry Kane has been exceptional so far. Despite his hattrick against Panama coming from two penalties and an "intentional" back heel. His performances have proved that a player of his calibre needs just half a chance and half a yard to punish a mistake. The 24-year old will be at 100% as he was rested against Belgium in the final group game. Kieran Trippier (Right-back) The 27-year old defender has made a number of darting runs down the right which will give Colombia’s left-sided players more than enough trouble throughout the game. His crosses for striker Harry Kane will keep England optimistic of scoring from the right. Having already assisted once so far, he may be able to add to his tally come Tuesday evening. Colombia key players: James Rodrigues (Midfielder) Despite limping off against Senegal in the last group game, James Rodrigues will be an important part of Colombia’s success against England. If he is not fit enough to start he will still be an impact player coming off the bench. He will give England’s defensive midfielders a tough time. Rodrigues has assisted two of Colombia’s goals so far. Radamel Falcao (Forward) Having already scored at this year’s World Cup, Falcao will be looking to add to his tally. With the unstable presence of John Stones at the back, Falcao will feel optimistic of poaching a goal from a mistake in England’s backline. His direct runs into space will prove to be an important part of Rodrigues’ link play and key passes from midfield. Ahmed Kajee’s prediction: England 3-1 Colombia SWEDEN V SWITZERLAND Switzerland have been one of the surprise packages so far, following the 1-1 draw against Brazil in their first game. The quality of Granit Xhaka and Xherdan Shaqiri in midfield will give the Swiss hope of coming out on top against Sweden. However, they will be going up against the likes of Sebastian Larsson, Ola Toivonen and Victor Lindelöf. Kajee’s prediction: Sweden 1-1 Switzerland (Sweden win on Penalties) Kick-off times (CAT)Sweden v Switzerland: 16h00England v Colombia: 20h00