The 36-year-old royal - who is the president of the Football Association - has praised the squad for their victory in the tense game after they managed to squeeze through to the next round of the competition. LONDON - Prince William has praised the England football team after they won the penalty shootout against Colombia in the World Cup tournament on Tuesday night, meaning they're now in the quarterfinals. The 36-year-old royal - who is the president of the Football Association - has praised the squad for their victory in the tense game after they managed to squeeze through to the next round of the competition when Eric Dier scored the winning shot. In a tweet signed off by William posted on the official Kensington Palace page, he said: "I couldn't be prouder of #England- a victory in a penalty shootout! You have well and truly earned your place in the final eight of the #worldcup and you should know the whole country is right behind you for Saturday! Come on England!"  And William wasn't the only celebrity to jump on the social networking site to praise the efforts of the team as Russell Brand joked that he'd just "vomited" in his mouth a little bit after the opposition's goalkeeper failed to save Dier's miracle shot. The 43-year-old comedian said: "I'm naked. I'm crying. I just vomited a bit of tea. England (sic)." He then went on to honour England's manager Gareth Southgate, writing: "Voldemort is dead! The voodoo is undone! The hex is broke! All hail Garry Potter! (sic)" England fans were left sat on the edge of their seats during last night's nail-biting game after Harry Kane scored the first goal just minutes into the second half after Carlos Sanchez fouled the England captain during a free-kick. England looked set to be sailing through the quarterfinals of the World Cup as the game went to extra time but the players were left devastated when Colombia's Yerry Mina managed to score the equaliser two minutes from the whistle being blown. However, Kane's team did the nation proud when they won the penalty shootout with 4-3 - only the second time they've won a shootout at a major tournament since the Euro 1996 when they went up against Spain - meaning they're now in the quarterfinals, the first time since 2006, and are set to play Sweden on Saturday.