Over 120 KFC Mini-Cricket volunteer coaches and coordinators will be making their way to the annual national seminar to be held in KwaZulu-Natal from 3rd to 6th of July 2018. JOHANNESBURG - Cricket South Africa (CSA) and KFC will be celebrating the country’s largest development programme, KFC Mini-Cricket, this week. Over 120 KFC Mini-Cricket volunteer coaches and coordinators will be making their way to the annual national seminar to be held in KwaZulu-Natal from 3rd to 6th of July 2018. The annual seminar aims to not only empower and educate coaches but also to honour their contribution in their respective communities. This is intended to continue to support, guide and entrench cricket development. CSA Acting CEO, Thabang Moroe, shares his thoughts: “CSA highly values the investment made in coaches and appreciates the strides made by KFC to not only assist in cricket development but for giving kids great memories and friendships as well as keeping kids active. We hope that the new season will continue to enhance and maintain cricket advancement in communities in South Africa.” Since its inception, the programme has seen 2.5 million kids participating in the KFC Mini-Cricket programme and continues to be a driving force for strong national teams. To date, over 120,000 boys and girls have played KFC Mini-Cricket throughout the year in over 6,400 schools and been coached by almost 12,000 volunteer coaches. This year will be another distinct seminar as CSA and KFC celebrate eight years of a notable partnership. Thabisa Mkhwanazi, KFC Public Affairs director, said: “With the help of our valued partners, Cricket South Africa, the coaches and coordinators, the programme will continue to uplift communities and thrive. Each year we look forward to this event as it allows us to see how far we’ve come with cricket development in South Africa. We are also excited to plan for the 2018/19 season that will see many lives being changed.” The KFC Mini-Cricket programme is the largest national grassroots development programme in South Africa and offers kids critical building blocks for learning cricketing basics and entrenching a love for the game. The programme allows volunteer coaches at schools to offer a cricket sporting programme, even with basic fields and facilities. This is to make sure that kids are playing the game their way while getting active and learning – critical sporting lessons of the cricketing game. CSA will host the annual National Seminar in KwaZulu-Natal and will have several guest speakers such as former Proteas captain Graeme Smith and internationally acclaimed motivational speaker and author, Gavin Sharples.