The Baby Boks claimed a hard fought 33-27 win over a determined Georgia outfit to claim their first win of the 2018 World Rugby Under 20 Championship in Perpignan, France on Wednesday evening. JOHANNESBURG - The Baby Boks claimed a hard fought 33-27 win over a determined Georgia outfit to claim their first win of the 2018 World Rugby Under 20 Championship in Perpignan, France on Wednesday evening. The junior Boks struck first in the ninth minute, with a try by centre Wandisile Simelane, who received a well-timed pass from winger Sihle Njezula, to take a 5-0 lead. This, though, was cancelled out four minutes later as Georgian centre Lasha Lomidze gathered a grubber to touch down. The successful conversion by scrumhalf Gela Aprasidze and a subsequent penalty goal handed Georgia a 10-5 lead. The South Africans hit back with a try by Muller Uys from a rolling maul in the 25th minute, which flyhalf Damian Willemse converted, but an intercept try by Georgia’s Demur Tapladze with two minutes left in the half nudged them 17-12 ahead. The Junior Springboks showed their intent early in the second half as a charge-down and superb gathering skills under pressure by winger Tyrone Green saw him score the team’s third try. Scrumhalf Zak Burger added the team’s bonus-point try soon after, as he gathered the ball from a ruck and snuck over the tryline, and it was a matter of minutes before Uys scored his try with a powerful burst over the line.  The team was dealt a blow with 11 minutes to go as prop Asenathi Ntlabakanye received a yellow card, and Georgia capitalised on this as Luka Dvalishvili scored their third try to reduce the deficit on the scoreboard to 33-27. The Junior Springboks, however, managed to hold onto their lead in the dying minutes to secure the victory. Baby Boks coach Chean Roux said that the team didn’t play well but was happy with the result against a tough Georgian side. “The result is basically all we got from this game, we didn’t play well on the day. “In the first half, we dropped balls and made unforced errors; it was as though there was nervousness in the squad. “But I think we did well in the second half. There were two tries that were not awarded, which would have made a difference. But the guys did well to hang in until the end with only 14 players. “It was a good learning curve.” Roux’s team will face Ireland in their second pool match on 3 June, before meeting hosts, France, in their final pool match on 7 June, at Stade d’Honneur du Parc des Sports et de l'Amitié in Narbonne.