Rohde is accused of having strangled Susan Rohde but claims she committed suicide. CAPE TOWN - Alleged wife killer Jason Rohde has testified he repeatedly told his wife he was done with their marriage on the night prior to her death. They had been fighting about his extramarital affair with a colleague, while attending a company function at the Spier Hotel near Stellenbosch in July 2016. He’s accused of having strangled Susan Rohde but claims she committed suicide by hanging herself with a hair iron cord in the bathroom of their hotel room. Jason Rohde has explained how the argument between him and his wife grew more intense as he tried to leave the room. Susan Rohde tried to prevent him from going. The accused describes how both pushed and pulled at each other, him trying to leave and his spouse trying to stop him. Rohde says he moved her out of the way, careful to indicate that he didn’t throttle her. He has demonstrated how he used his forearm to move her arm out of the way and as he did this, he claims the soft side of his arm connected with her face. He says after he left the room, she followed him, and they continued to argue - with his wife calling him a “cheat”. The accused says he then went to a colleague’s room - where his mistress and another co-worker were also present. He’s told the court his wife followed him there, shouting at him to leave immediately. Rohde says after leaving they continued to bicker and as she grabbed him from behind, he swung his arms to try to knock her hands away. He claims that in the melee, his elbow knocked her nose by accident. LISTEN: Susan Rohde committed suicide, Jason Rohde tells the court  BATHROOM Jason Rohde has described how he forced open a bathroom door to find his wife with a cord around her neck. That’s his version of events on the morning of Susan Rohde’s death at the Spier Hotel. He claims to have gone back to sleep after Susan Rohde slammed the bathroom door the next morning. The accused has testified he woke up about an hour later and as he was getting ready for a work function, he noticed the bathroom door was locked. Rhode has told the court he initially thought his wife was taking a bath and shouted for her to open the door, but there was no response. He believed she was ignoring him. Rohde says he became worried when he realised there were no movements or sounds coming from the bathroom. He then alerted reception and a handyman arrived to open the bathroom door with a screwdriver. However, Rohde has testified the door was blocked and as he tried to force it open, he saw his wife’s feet. He claims when he eventually gained access, he discovered his spouse had hanged herself from the back of the door. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)