President Cyril Ramaphosa announced he would launch the inquiry in February, citing the need to restore the credibility of the service and its capacity to meet revenue targets. CAPE TOWN - President Cyril Ramaphosa  is expected to announce the terms of reference for the Commission of Inquiry into South African Revenue Service (Sars) governance and administration this week, and the names of those who will serve on it. That’s according to Treasury’s Ismail Momoniat, who’s been briefing Parliament’s Standing Committee on Finance. Ramaphosa announced he would launch the inquiry during his State of the Nation Address in February, citing the need to restore the credibility of the service and its capacity to meet revenue targets. Momoniat says the Commission of Inquiry is expected to look at the steps Sars took under suspended commissioner Tom Moyane’s watch to address revenue shortfalls of totalling R80 billion since 2016, including the unauthorised payment of bonuses to top Sars executives and withholding of refunds to ordinary taxpayers. Momoniat says the inquiry is also expected to consider adherence to tax administrative processes, including for VAT refunds, mining rehabilitation funds and adherence to customs and excise provisions with particular reference to tobacco. The inquiry is separate to the disciplinary proceedings Moyane is facing. NO INFORMATION Parliament has been told that Sars failed to provide information to investigators about suspicious transactions involving former top official Jonas Makwakwa and those of former fellow employee Kelly-Ann Elskie. Moyane is facing disciplinary proceedings, part of which are expected to relate to his handling of the financial intelligence centre report that red-flagged the suspicious payments and subsequent action against Makwakwa. Makwakwa was suspended in 2016 but then reinstated by Moyane after being cleared in a disciplinary hearing, which followed a separate investigation by law firm Hogan Lovells. Momoniat says Sars denied PwC’s request for access to the office computers and work cellphones issued to Makwakwa. He says it is clear from the PwC report that while Makwakwa himself refused to provide information, Sars also did not cooperate. “Sars, according to this report, was requested for information. They didn’t even want to confirm the payments that Sars made to Mr Makwakwa.” Momoniat says the investigation went nowhere. PwC also needed a full list of all of Makwakwa’s bank accounts but did not get sight of this. Makwakwa’s cash deposits could only be partially verified in only two out of 20 categories. (Edited by Thapelo Lekabe)