Patricia de Lille says she is still in office because there is a matter pending before the courts. CAPE TOWN - There seems to be some discrepancy over whether Patricia de Lille still holds the position of mayor. De Lille says she is still in office because there is a matter pending before the courts. The Democratic Alliance (DA) has announced she’s no longer mayor after its Federal Executive rescinded her party membership. The Independent Electoral Commission (IEC)’s Courtney Sampson says it has received papers from De Lille’s lawyers to interdict the municipal manager from declaring a vacancy in the office of the mayor, but none from the City of Cape Town. “The city manager must inform the IEC of a vacancy in the City of Cape Town, that’s the legal requirement. Until the IEC receives the documentation from the city manager, the commission will not do anything.” WATCH: Why my relationship with DA broke down - De Lille  Deputy mayor Ian Neilson, however, says the IEC has been informed. “The city manager has informed the Electoral Commission about a council vacancy.” De Lille’s aid Rodney Lentit has told EWN she’s still the mayor pending the outcome of a court hearing on Friday. Lentit says if the DA wants to make changes in the mayoral committee, they must vote her out and then Neilson becomes the acting mayor. WATCH: DA explains why Patricia de Lille lost her party membership  ‘I’LL DESIGN MY FUTURE’ The IEC says De Lille wants to interdict the City of Cape Town’s municipal manager from declaring a vacancy in the office of the mayor. De Lille maintains she cannot be removed from office until the court has ruled on her latest motion. “I made it clear that I’ll design my future once I’ve cleared my name. If the DA has now denied me an opportunity, through a due process within the systems of the party, that’s why we have the courts.” Sampson says the city manager must inform it of a vacancy in council. He adds once the commission receives that information, it will begin processes to fill the position. “The IEC has been served with papers from De Lille's legal representatives indicating that they are seeking a court interdict, preventing the commission from filling a vacancy in the City of Cape Town until the legal processes have been concluded.” (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)