The party's Jack Bloom says the Life Esidemini tragedy will not end until all the patients are found. JOHANNESBURG – The Democratic Alliance (DA) says the chance of finding all the missing Life Esidimeni patients is decreasing. This comes after the police revealed that 28 patients are still missing. The patients went missing two years ago after being transported to illegal NGOs. At least 144 people have been confirmed dead. The party's Jack Bloom says the Life Esidemini tragedy will not end until all the patients are found. “There are still 28 patients that have not been located, this is very serious. Many of them could be dead and others we must try and rescue as soon as possible but we must find them.” Earlier on Sunday, police confirmed that 34 missing Life Esidimeni patients have now been found, with 28 still missing. Bloom says it is distressing that there are still patients who are not accounted for which highlights that the tragedy is still not over. Bloom says releasing information will help speed up the process to find other missing patients. “We can’t have a situation where 28 patients still unaccounted for but there are three missing patients that don’t even have their full names. So, I really think that to bring this tragedy to a close, we need to exert every effort to find the remaining 28 patients.” This week, it emerged that former staff at one of the NGOs that housed psychiatric patients from Life Esidimeni destroyed patient files which could set back police investigations. A new board started at the Takalani Home for the mentally handicapped in Soweto last December and said it arrived to little or no paperwork and had to begin patient assessments from scratch. The NGO, which is located in Diepkloof, is where many of the first victims of the so-called Esidimeni tragedy died. The Esidimeni arbitration hearings revealed that patients at the Takalani Home died mainly because of neglect, a lack of food and a typhoid outbreak. During a DA walkabout of the premises, the media was briefed by the new board and new staff members at Takalani. The NGO’s director Judgement Gumede said many were fired for wrongdoing last year while some resigned. Gumede said two previous board members were charged with 99 counts of mismanagement and other offences. “Both of them were charged with fraud and theft of institutional funds and it’s 99 charges for both of them.” He also said when they arrived in December, they found no files. “We had to start the organisation afresh. In terms of administration, there were no proper records. We only found staff records and critical information for the running of the institution was deleted on the computers.” There are also allegations of theft amounting to millions of rands against former employees of the home. At the same time, the DA said the home is running out of food because of late subsidy payments from the Gauteng Health Department. Bloom said despite new management, the Takalani hasn't received the necessary subsidy of R4,800 per patient for the past two months. “I was pleased on my visit to find out that it’s completely under new management and I think they’re doing a good job. The problem is the fact that the department hasn’t paid them their subsidies for nearly two months. Some of the staff haven’t been paid and they’re going to run out of food by this weekend.” (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)