A survey on sexual harassment indicates that over 66.7% of women in the South African film and TV industry feel unsafe at work. JOHANNESBURG - Sisters Working in Film and TV (Swift) has conducted a survey on sexual harassment in the film and TV industry. Besides other disturbing revelations, the survey indicated that over 66.7% of women in the South African film and TV industry feel unsafe at work. It is after that revelation that Swift launched its flagship #ThatsNotOk video series. The video series will be released online from Thursday on Swift’s social media platforms. Swift is a registered NPO run by film industry volunteers with the main objectives to empower, enlighten and connect female filmmakers across South Africa. "Women are regularly exposed to blatant abuse and micro-aggressions that go unacknowledged and unreported because 'the show must go on' in a time-pressured, creatively volatile environment. This needs to stop. We are actively helping the players in the industry draft new policy to educate, empower and protect people from sexual harassment," Swift said in a statement. Film director and cinematographer Natalie Haarhoff said: "This awareness campaign involves a video series aimed at educating people about what harassment is and what's not ok. And the following part will be to put safety contacts in place." For the campaign, Swift received the support of the KZN Film Commission, Stained Glass productions, Magic Lightbox and the cast from SABC1's Uzalo. Nyalleng Thibedi, Ntombifuthi Dlamini, Lungelo Madondo, Dawn Thandeka King and Hlubi Mboya are among the talents who acted in the series. WATCH: #ThatsNotOk vide series  Swift is asking for the public and professionals in the industry to support the #ThatsNotOk campaign by watching the video series, reading the results of the survey and sharing them with colleagues. "No one needs to suffer in silence anymore," it said. View Swift's survey on sexual harassment here: SWIFT Sexual Harassment Survey Report by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd 