Absa Premier League coach of the season Pitso Mosimane says that Mamelodi Sundowns have received interest from English Premier League, French League 1, Bundaslinga and Serie A clubs for Footballer of the Season, Percy Tau. JOHANNESBURG - Absa Premier League Coach of the Season Pitso Mosimane says that Mamelodi Sundowns have received interest from English Premier League, French League 1, Bundeslinga and Serie A clubs for Footballer of the Season, Percy Tau. The young attacker had a stellar season for the Pretoria club, that saw him being joint top goal scorer with 11 goals and 11 assists. Tau also won the league title with Sundowns and capped off his brilliant season by being named the Footballer of the Season and Player’s Player of the Season at the PSL awards on Wednesday night at the Sandton Convention Centre. Tau’s star has been rising all season and Mosimane hasn’t been shy praising the star attacker. Mosimane had expressed his desire for Tau to play in the top five leagues in Europe and after the PSL awards, he confirmed that there has been interest from English Premier League clubs amongst other big European clubs. “It is going to be very difficult for us to keep Percy. There is big interest in him, even from English Premier League clubs. We have been talking about a top five league for him and we don’t want him to go to Denmark or Sweden. What is he going to do there?” “There’s also interest in Percy from League 1 in France, Serie A in Italy, the Bundesliga in Germany, but now the EPL has knocked on the door.” Mosimane also says that the exhibition match against Barcelona also boosted Tau’s profile and attracted attention from European clubs. “What Percy has done for the year and that match against Barcelona has helped him gain interest from these big leagues.” Mosimane says that he will be happy to see Tau leave Sundowns and wants to see him play in the English Premier League. “In my opinion. I want him to go and play in the EPL. We don’t have a South African playing there anymore, so it would be nice for him to go and play week, in week out and see if he is the real deal or not.” Sundowns are also preparing to lose Zimbabwean international Khama Billiat, whose future at the club remains uncertain. 