The contract list features a mix of the past and the future, with Theunis de Bruyn re-joining the franchise, while paceman Tshepo Moreki has signed for the first time from the Cape Cobras. JOHANNESBURG - The Multiply Titans have announced the 18 players to be awarded franchise contracts for the 2018-19 season. The contract list features a mix of the past and the future, with Theunis de Bruyn re-joining the franchise, while paceman Tshepo Moreki has signed for the first time from the Cape Cobras. Rookie contracts have been awarded to Corbin Bosch and Wandile Makwetu. Malusi Siboto has left the Multiply Titans, following the expiry of his contract, while Rowan Richards has been released from the franchise. Pretoria-born De Bruyn returns to familiar surroundings at SuperSport Park, after a two-year stint with the VKB Knights. Having started his cricketing career at the Centurion franchise, the 25-year-old will bring international experience, following his Test and T20 International debuts last year. An all-format player, Moreki has featured in over 100 games at provincial and franchise level combined, garnering 150 wickets in the process. And it was during last season's four-day game against the Multiply Titans that the 24-year-old seamer caught Boucher’s attention. Right-arm seamer Bosch, a product of the Northern's pipeline, has been on the fringe of the team, having made his debut with the red and white ball last season. The 23-year-old paceman has made six appearances so far and was a part of the squad that won a dramatic Sunfoil Series title. Makwetu, meanwhile, arrives at the franchise on the back of an impressive summer behind the stumps and at the crease. The 19-year-old wicketkeeper starred at the U-19 ICC World Cup earlier this year, before going on to make his First-Class and List A debut for Northerns. The Multiply Titans enjoyed another stellar season in 2017-18, which saw the Sky Blues become the first domestic franchise to win a hat-trick of T20 titles, before clinching the four-day title. While the team enjoyed success, strong individual performances led to national call-ups for Junior Dala, Heinrich Klaasen, Aiden Markram and Lungi Ngidi. That continued a long-standing Titans tradition in the national setup, with Markram and Ngidi joining a list of eight Standard Bank Proteas currently associated with the Centurion franchise. Following the announcement of AB de Villiers' immediate retirement from international cricket, discussions are still ongoing regarding the finalisation of a playing arrangement for the upcoming season. Full Multiply Titans 2018-2019 squad: Andrea Agathangelou Farhaan BehardienCorbin Bosch Junior DalaHenry DavidsTheunis de BruynTony de Zorzi Eldred HawkenHeinrich KlaasenHeino Kuhn Wandile Makwetu Tshepo Moreki Rivaldo MoonsamyAlbie MorkelAlfred MothoaGrant Thomson Jonathan VandiarShaun von Berg