The AutoTrader Bike Festival powered by the Discovery Channel took place over the weekend and Ahmed Kajee was there to soak up all the action. JOHANNESBURG - The AutoTrader SA Bike Festival took place this past weekend – and it was an event that I have been waiting for since last year’s SA Bike Festival. AutoTrader CEO George Mienie said that the 2018 Bike Festival will definitely be an improvement from 2017, and it was a case of mission accomplished for Mienie and co. The festival started for the public on Friday allowing for a full three days of two-wheeled action. There were a number of exhibits for visitors to try almost too many to remember. Visitors had access to a huge variety of the newest biking trends from the world’s top brands alongside live music, test rides and the best in biking lifestyle and entertainment. Some of the many attractions that brought avid motorcyclists to the festival is the opportunity to ride one’s bike on the iconic Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit. If off-road biking is what you’re into, you could always give the Adventure Ride Outs a shot. Visitors had access to two different courses available over the weekend. The Green Loop consisted of a very easy off-road experience to build the riders' confidence, with minimal technicalities. A Red Loop incorporated some to the green loop but a technical section will be added to the riders’ choice. GAS Sports brought not only the 1000cc class but the 600cc’s for a round of the SuperGP Champions Trophy to Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit this year which made for exciting high-speed racing. Over the past four years, the SuperGP Champions trophy has grown to be firmly established as the premier national motorcycle racing series on the South African calendar with many of its stars going on to showcase their talents on the international stage. MY EXPERIENCE ON TWO-WHEELS Having never climbed onto a motorcycle before, I was rather intimidated at the prospect of learning how to ride a bike without flying head first into the fence demarcated for the ‘learn to ride’ section. I booked my session for Sunday afternoon and was messaged on Saturday afternoon – confirming my booking - from the gentleman who would be conducting my lesson. Corne, from Learn to Ride was ready and waiting come 2.30pm to teach my “zero-minutes-on-a-bike” butt how to ride. Part one, theory! Getting through the controls of the bike such as the clutch, brakes – my biggest fear – the throttle and balance obviously. After a 15-minute explanation on how the controls, onto the bike I went. Before touching the throttle, all I had to do was release the clutch, move forward and break again to learn the craft. A few moments later I was allowed to use the throttle and that’s when I realised the similarities between driving and riding. I was exceptionally satisfied with my intro lesson to riding a motorcycle, and what made it all the better was that the festival’s exhibitors offered these classes free of charge. All in all, the bike festival was heaven on earth for the fans of everything in the motorcycle world with all the big-hitters present to show off their motorcycles and accessories. The festival had a number of foods and drink stalls around to satisfy a person’s culinary cravings.