The City of Cape Town Mayor on Wednesday released a statement revealing she's in possession of two Bowmans forensic investigation reports into Patricia de Lille. CAPE TOWN - Patricia de Lille  claims a leaked forensic report is consistent with a smear campaign against her. The City of Cape Town Mayor on Wednesday released a statement revealing she's in possession of two Bowmans forensic investigation reports: one saying she should be charged for misconduct and another placing the blame on former City Manager Achmat Ebrahim. City Council is expected to adopt the recommendations of one of the reports that she be disciplined on Thursday. De Lille has questioned the credibility of the Bowman Gilfillan investigation since its inception. She claims a preliminary report adopted by council earlier this year made a number of findings against her which are inaccurate and baseless. “I will subject myself to all the necessary processes to have my name cleared. It's also very convenient for all my adversaries to accept whatever recommendations are because it suits their political agenda to malign me...I will subject myself to all the necessary processes to have my name cleared." Political analyst Somadoda Fikeni says De Lille's fight is long from being over. "She rose to prominence on an understanding that she was a corruption-buster...any suggestion that she too is also corrupt, she's likely to fight tooth and nail because it may inhibit her political ambitions beyond the mayorship and even beyond the DA..." One of the Bowman opinions finds the onus was on the city manager to report corruption to the council even if he was influenced by the mayor not to. But a more voluminous report of almost 2,000 pages says both De Lille and the city manager should have reported the tender irregularities to the council. De Lille, however, is questioning different opinions from the same legal firm on her culpability for allegedly not raising the alarm over tender irregularities. The debacle around the two reports comes amid speculation that she will retract her resignation after announcing in August that she will step down next week after a bitter battle with the party. (Edited by Mihlali Ntsabo)