Prince Harry greeted an Aboriginal community on the stunning World Heritage-listed Fraser Island on Monday as his pregnant wife Meghan took a break from official duties during the royal couple's Australian tour. FRASER ISLAND - Prince Harry greeted an Aboriginal community on the stunning World Heritage-listed Fraser Island on Monday as his pregnant wife Meghan took a break from official duties during the royal couple's Australian tour. The pair have already travelled to Sydney, Melbourne and the regional town of Dubbo since touching down in Australia last Monday, drawing thousands of screaming fans to their events. The visit to Fraser Island off the coast of Queensland state took on a different tone, as the Duke of Sussex was greeted with a traditional Aboriginal ceremony from the local Butchulla people on the peaceful shores of Lake McKenzie. Harry later walked barefoot on the soft white sands of the lake, a source of drinking water for the Butchulla people, and splashed water on his face.    Fraser is the world's largest sand island and the prince was due to unveil a plaque to dedicate the holiday site's acres of rainforests to the Queen's Commonwealth Canopy project. His visit will also touch on other environmental issues, a cause close to his father Prince Charles' heart, when he meets with park rangers to learn more about the island's plants and animals. Later, he will meet with two Hervey Bay paramedics, who are being recognised for granting a dying woman's final wish by taking her to the beach. A photo of a paramedic beside a stretcher facing the ocean was posted on Facebook last year and went viral around the world. The royal couple had earlier arrived in Queensland by plane before travelling to the island separately. Harry boarded a barge, a route used by tourists to travel to the island, while the Duchess of Sussex took a different vessel and then retreated to a private residence. Her choice of dress, a maroon number with white polka dots, sparked excitement in Queensland, as the deep brownish-red happens to also been the official colour of the state. The pair are due to visit Fiji and Tonga after Fraser Island.