Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has confirmed that the leaked video was lifted off his phone during a hack more than a year ago. JOHANNESBURG -Political analyst Ralph Mathekga says he doesn't think the sex video involving Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba  will have an impact on him politically. The minister has confirmed that the leaked video was lifted off his phone during a hack more than a year ago. Gigaba has also apologised on Twitter to his family, especially his children, his mom, in-laws and the South African public for the pain and embarrassment that the likely wider distribution of this video will cause. He says it was only meant to be viewed by his wife and himself. My wife and I have learned, with regret and sadness, that a video containing material of a sexual nature, meant for our eyes only, which was stolen when my communication got illegally intercepted/my phone got hacked, in 2016/17, is circulating among certain political figures...  Mathekga says it was unfortunate for his family but it won't impact his career. “Unfortunately, our politics is such that these kinds of behaviour do not usually bare any consequences, that is the reality of that. We’ve seen such scandals before and they have never resulted in any consequences.” Gigaba says those responsible for hacking his cellphone tried to blackmail him into making certain decisions when he was still finance minister. The minister says the video is circulating in political circles but had only been intended for him and his wife. He says he is working with private investigators to get to the bottom of the people behind the hack. Gigaba claims that after his appointment as finance minister last year, the people who hacked his phone tried to blackmail him which is why he's hired a private security firm to catch the culprits. The minister has not revealed what kind of requests the alleged hackers made. Gigaba's spokesperson Vuyo Mkhize says they turned to private security after police failed to help. “One of the demands was that he made several decisions in his capacity while he was finance minister. He reported the incident to the intelligent agency.” Mkhize says he's hoping authorities will solve the matter as soon as possible. VIOLATION OF HIS PRIVACY Meanwhile, social media lawyer Emma Sadleir is against the sharing and posting of the sex video that features Gigaba. Sadleir says people who share the sex video could get in trouble with the law if it was illegally obtained. Gigaba says he reported the matter to authorities after it was used in a blackmail and extortion attempt by unknown culprits, which he turned down. Sadleir says the video is a violation of the minister's privacy and could lead to some kind of legal prosecution. “Every single person who shares that video is contributing to that harm and committing a separate criminal offence each time. And so I really urge every member of the public not to send it on, not to re-post it and not to retweet it.” Gigaba says he has hired a private investigator to find those responsible and the investigation is continuing. (Edited by Mihlali Ntsabo)