The party's integrity commission says that the reputation and credibility of the African National Congress has been seriously damaged by the issue. JOHANNESBURG - The national integrity commission of the African National Congress has recommended to the national executive committee that those members of the party implicated in the VBS Mutual Bank saga should be directed to step aside from all leadership positions and all activities of the ANC. In a statement issued on Monday, the commission reported that its weekend meeting considered the question of office bearers and members of the ANC implicated in the VBS Mutual Bank saga. "It was reported to the national integrity commission that these members had been advised by the secretary general’s office to approach the national integrity commission in accordance with the resolution of the 54th National Conference that “…every cadre accused of, or reported to be involved in, corrupt practices accounts to the Integrity Commission immediately or faces disciplinary action”. Thus far, they have not done so. "Having considered the matter, the national integrity commission is of the view that the reputation and credibility of the African National Congress has been seriously damaged. To protect the integrity and reputation of the ANC, the National Integrity Commission recommends to the national executive committee that these members should be directed to step aside from all leadership positions and all activities of the ANC." The ANC's integrity commission has asked the NEC to instruct all leaders implicated in the looting of VBS bank to step down. ANC Limpopo deputy chair Florence Radzilani and Treasurer Danny Msiza failed to appear before the commission last week in connection with the saga. Msiza has applied for a court order against advocate Terry Motau's Great Heist report which lists him as one of the perpetrators of the almost R2 billion heist. Meanwhile, Radzilani has used her church to deny the allegations against her - saying she never met or contacted anyone of authority within VBS. Integrity commission chair George Mashamba says the reputation and credibility of the ANC has been seriously damaged and the situation will only worsen if those implicated remain in office. “Those who are implicated or alleged to have been involved in the VBS story will have to stand aside.”