In a lengthy post on Instagram, where she has 112 million followers, the 28-year-old Swift says while she has been "reluctant" to share her political views in the past, she has changed her mind. NEW YORK – Pop star Taylor Swift is not really known for making political statements, but the Bad Blood singer is no longer holding back ahead of the midterm elections in November. In a lengthy post on Instagram, where she has 112 million followers, the 28-year-old Swift says while she has been "reluctant" to share her political views in the past, she has changed her mind. She endorsed the Democrat running for the US Senate in her home state of Tennessee, and unleashed a fierce attack on his opponent, Republican Marsha Blackburn, who currently serves in the House. I’m writing this post about the upcoming midterm elections on November 6th, in which I’ll be voting in the state of Tennessee. In the past I’ve been reluctant to publicly voice my political opinions, but due to several events in my life and in the world in the past two years, I feel very differently about that now. I always have and always will cast my vote based on which candidate will protect and fight for the human rights I believe we all deserve in this country. I believe in the fight for LGBTQ rights, and that any form of discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender is WRONG. I believe that the systemic racism we still see in this country towards people of color is terrifying, sickening and prevalent. I cannot vote for someone who will not be willing to fight for dignity for ALL Americans, no matter their skin color, gender or who they love. Running for Senate in the state of Tennessee is a woman named Marsha Blackburn. As much as I have in the past and would like to continue voting for women in office, I cannot support Marsha Blackburn. Her voting record in Congress appalls and terrifies me. She voted against equal pay for women. She voted against the Reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, which attempts to protect women from domestic violence, stalking, and date rape. She believes businesses have a right to refuse service to gay couples. She also believes they should not have the right to marry. These are not MY Tennessee values. I will be voting for Phil Bredesen for Senate and Jim Cooper for House of Representatives. Please, please educate yourself on the candidates running in your state and vote based on who most closely represents your values. For a lot of us, we may never find a candidate or party with whom we agree 100% on every issue, but we have to vote anyway. So many intelligent, thoughtful, self-possessed people have turned 18 in the past two years and now have the right and privilege to make their vote count. But first you need to register, which is quick and easy to do. October 9th is the LAST DAY to register to vote in the state of TN. Go to vote.org and you can find all the info. Happy Voting! 🗳😃🌈 A post shared by  Taylor Swift (@taylorswift) on Oct 7, 2018 at 4:33pm PDT  "As much as I have in the past and would like to continue voting for women in office, I cannot support Marsha Blackburn. Her voting record in Congress appalls and terrifies me," Swift said. "She voted against equal pay for women. She voted against the Reauthorisation of the Violence Against Women Act, which attempts to protect women from domestic violence, stalking, and date rape." Last year, Swift won a lawsuit against a former radio DJ she accused of groping her. Blackburn "believes businesses have a right to refuse service to gay couples. She also believes they should not have the right to marry," Swift added. "These are not MY Tennessee values. I will be voting for Phil Bredesen for Senate and Jim Cooper for House of Representatives." She urged her fans to register to vote, saying: "Please, please educate yourself on the candidates running in your state and vote based on who most closely represents your values. "For a lot of us, we may never find a candidate or party with whom we agree 100% on every issue, but we have to vote anyway."