The revenue service's Chief Officer Makhekhe-Mokhuane asked to comment on previous evidence which revealed there have been very little technological advancements at Sars since 2014. PRETORIA - The South African Revenue Service (Sars)'s chief officer for IT has told the Nugent Commission of Inquiry that her division suffers from severe budgetary constraints, which has meant a focus on maintenance and not advancement. Mmamathe Makhekhe-Mokhuane has presented evidence at the hearings in Pretoria on Wednesday. President Cyril Ramaphosa released retired Judge Robert Nugent's interim report on Tuesday who recommended Commissioner Tom Moyane be fired. Makhekhe-Mokhuane asked to comment on previous evidence which revealed there have been very little technological advancements at Sars since 2014. “While we are in the midst of this journey, we experienced ‘barriers’ and we had to go back to the drawing board and said this is what we’re going to do to keep the lights on, these are the projects and the minimum we required was R377 million and we were given R88 million.” There was at times some confusion related to the use of terms between the witness, the commissioners and evidence leader. OPERATIONAL MEETINGS It’s emerged at the inquiry that Makhekhe-Mokhuane has attended just four out of the 14 operational meetings in 2018. Makhekhe-Mokhuane made the revelation while giving testimony. Evidence leader advocate Frances Hobden produced meeting minutes which showed Makhekhe-Mokhuane’s attended less than a third of operational meetings in 2018. Makhekhe-Mokhuane became defensive when Judge Nugent asked her to confirm whether the records were accurate. “I report to the commissioner, this I want to put on record. I’m not going to sit here and discuss whether I attended meetings because as and when I get assignments, I get them from the commissioner. In my understanding of your terms of reference, it’s to look at the governance and not what I do as a chief officer... including when I go to the bathroom. With due respect sir, please protect me. ” (Edited by Mihlali Ntsabo)