Weekend reports stated that the party had actually received over R2 million towards its local government election campaign in 2016. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) says it’s willing to pay back any amount that it's found to have benefited from in the VBS Bank heist. Weekend reports stated that the party had actually received over R2 million towards its local government election campaign in 2016. The party says it's aware of R250,000 donated to it from Vele Investments which is at the centre of the scandal. It says if more money was donated, this will be paid back. The ANC says it’s not aware of R2 million donated to the party as reported by the Sunday Times. Spokesperson Pule Mabe says the party will launch an internal investigation. “We are most willing to do the most honourable thing. Of course, we’ll have our own investigation to establish the merits and facts of the issue.” He says this will be done with speed, with the VBS matter addressed internally. The party's Limpopo deputy chair Florence Radzilani and treasurer Danny Msiza are among those implicated in the VBS looting together with 50 others. A forensic report shows almost R2 billion was looted. WATCH: Seloba: This reckless VBS investment will affect service delivery  REPUTATION DAMAGED The ANC says it will use its special NEC meeting this weekend to take a final decision on the integrity committee's recommendation that the party's leaders who are involved in the VBS scandal resign. The integrity committee has recommended that the NEC direct its deputy chairperson and treasurer in Limpopo to step aside from all leadership positions and all activities of the ANC, as the reputation and integrity of the ANC has been damaged. The ANC’s Ace Magashule says the special NEC meeting this coming weekend will discuss the integrity committee’s report. “We will engage, and the national executive committee will take a decision. We always take decisions as a collective.” Magashule says the meeting will also discuss other matters. “We’ll be preparing ourselves for elections while still focusing on the issue of unity.” (Edited by Shimoney Regter)